The Indian Premier League (IPL) is a professional Twenty20 cricket league in India contested during March or April and May of every year by eight teams representing eight different cities in India. The league was founded by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) in 2008. The IPL has an exclusive window in ICC Future Tours Programme.The IPL is the most-attended cricket league in the world and in 2014 ranked sixth by average attendance among all sports leagues. In 2010, the IPL became the first sporting event in the world to be broadcast live on YouTube. The brand value of the IPL in 2019 was ₹475 billion (US$6.7 billion), according to Duff & Phelps. According to BCCI, the 2015 IPL season contributed ₹11.5 billion (US$160 million) to the GDP of the Indian economy.There have been twelve seasons of the IPL tournament. The current IPL title holders are the Mumbai Indians, who won the 2019 season. The venue for the 2020 season has been moved, due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic; games will now take place in the United Arab Emirates from September 19 through November 10.


== History ==


=== Background ===
The Indian Cricket League (ICL) was founded in 2007, with funding provided by Zee Entertainment Enterprises. The ICL was not recognised by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) or the International Cricket Council (ICC) and the BCCI were not pleased with its committee members joining the ICL executive board. To prevent players from joining the ICL, the BCCI increased the prize money in their own domestic tournaments and also imposed lifetime bans on players joining the ICL, which was considered a rebel league by the board.


=== Foundation ===

On 13 September 2007, the BCCI announced the launch of a franchise-based Twenty20 cricket competition called Indian Premier League whose first season was slated to start in April 2008, in a "high-profile ceremony" in New Delhi. BCCI vice-president Lalit Modi, said to be the mastermind behind the idea of the IPL, spelled out the details of the tournament including its format, the prize money, franchise revenue system and squad composition rules. It was also revealed that the IPL would be run by a seven-man governing council composed of former India players and BCCI officials and that the top two teams of the IPL would qualify for that year's Champions League Twenty20. Modi also clarified that they had been working on the idea for two years and that the IPL was not started as a "knee-jerk reaction" to the ICL. The league's format was similar to that of the Premier League of England and the NBA in the United States.In order to decide the owners for the new league, an auction was held on 24 January 2008 with the total base prices of the franchises costing around $400 million. At the end of the auction, the winning bidders were announced, as well as the cities the teams would be based in: Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Kolkata, Mohali, and Mumbai. In the end, the franchises were all sold for a total of $723.59 million. The Indian Cricket League soon folded in 2008.


=== Expansions and terminations ===

On 21 March 2010, it was announced that two new franchises – Pune Warriors India and Kochi Tuskers Kerala – would join the league before the fourth season in 2011. Sahara Adventure Sports Group bought the Pune franchise for $370 million while Rendezvous Sports World bought the Kochi franchise for $333.3 million. However, one year later, on 11 November 2011, it was announced that the Kochi Tuskers Kerala side would be terminated following the side breaching the BCCI's terms of conditions.Then, on 14 September 2012, following the team not being able to find new owners, the BCCI announced that the 2009 champions, the Deccan Chargers, would be terminated. The next month, on 25 October, an auction was held to see who would be the owner of the replacement franchise, with Sun TV Network winning the bid for the Hyderabad franchise. The team would be named Sunrisers Hyderabad.Pune Warriors India withdrew from the IPL on 21 May 2013 over financial differences with the BCCI. The franchise was officially terminated by the BCCI, on 26 October 2013, on account of the franchise failing to provide the necessary bank guarantee.On 14 June 2015, it was announced that two-time champions, Chennai Super Kings, and the inaugural season champions, Rajasthan Royals, would be suspended for two seasons following their role in a match-fixing and betting scandal. Then, on 8 December 2015, following an auction, it was revealed that Pune and Rajkot would replace Chennai and Rajasthan for two seasons. The two teams were the Rising Pune Supergiant and the Gujarat Lions.


== Organisation ==


=== Tournament format ===
Currently, with eight teams, each team plays each other twice in a home-and-away round-robin format in the league phase. At the conclusion of the league stage, the top four teams will qualify for the playoffs. The top two teams from the league phase will play against each other in the first Qualifying match, with the winner going straight to the IPL final and the loser getting another chance to qualify for the IPL final by playing the second Qualifying match. Meanwhile, the third and fourth place teams from league phase play against each other in an eliminator match and the winner from that match will play the loser from the first Qualifying match. The winner of the second Qualifying match will move onto the final to play the winner of the first Qualifying match in the IPL Final match, where the winner will be crowned the Indian Premier League champions.


=== Player acquisition, squad composition and salaries ===
A team can acquire players through any of the three ways: the annual player auction, trading players with other teams during the trading windows, and signing replacements for unavailable players. Players sign up for the auction and also set their base price, and are bought by the franchise that bids the highest for them. Unsold players at the auction are eligible to be signed up as replacement signings. In the trading windows, a player can only be traded with his consent, with the franchise paying the difference if any between the old and new contracts. If the new contract is worth more than the older one, the difference is shared between the player and the franchise selling the player. There are generally three trading windows—two before the auction and one after the auction but before the start of the tournament. Players cannot be traded outside the trading windows or during the tournament, whereas replacements can be signed before or during the tournament.
Some of the team composition rules (as of 2020 season) are as follows:

The squad strength must be between 18 and 25 players, with a maximum of 8 overseas players.
Salary cap of the entire squad must not exceed ₹850 million (US$12 million).
Under-19 players cannot be picked unless they have previously played first-class or List A cricket.
A team can play a maximum of 4 overseas players in their playing eleven.The term of a player contract is one year, with the franchise having the option to extend the contract by one or two years. Since the 2014 season, the player contracts are denominated in the Indian rupee, before which the contracts were in U.S. dollars. Overseas players can be remunerated in the currency of the player's choice at the exchange rate on either the contract due date or the actual date of payment. Prior to the 2014 season, Indian domestic players were not included in the player auction pool and could be signed up by the franchises at a discrete amount while a fixed sum of ₹1 million (US$14,000) to ₹3 million (US$42,000) would get deducted per signing from the franchise's salary purse. This received significant opposition from franchise owners who complained that richer franchises were "luring players with under-the-table deals" following which the IPL decided to include domestic players in the player auction.According to a 2015 survey by Sporting Intelligence and ESPN The Magazine, the average IPL salary when pro-rated is US$4.33 million per year, the second highest among all sports leagues in the world. Since the players in the IPL are only contracted for the duration of the tournament (less than two months), the weekly IPL salaries are extrapolated pro rata to obtain an average annual salary, unlike other sports leagues in which players are contracted by a single team for the entire year.


=== Match rules ===
IPL games utilise television timeouts and hence there is no time limit in which teams must complete their innings. However, a penalty may be imposed if the umpires find teams misusing this privilege. Each team is given a two-and-a-half-minute "strategic timeout" during each innings; one must be taken by the bowling team between the ends of the 6th and 9th overs, and one by the batting team between the ends of the 13th and 16th overs.Since the 2018 season, the Umpire Decision Review System is being used in all IPL matches, allowing each team one chance to review an on-field umpire's decision per innings.


=== Prize money ===
The 2019 season of the IPL offered a total prize money of ₹500 million (US$7.0 million), with the winning team netting ₹200 million (US$2.8 million). The first and second runners up received ₹125 million (US$1.8 million) and ₹87.5 million (US$1.2 million), respectively, with the fourth placed team also winning ₹87.5 million (US$1.2 million). The other teams are not awarded any prize money. The IPL rules mandate that half of the prize money must be distributed among the players.


== Teams ==


=== Current teams ===


=== Former teams ===


== Tournament seasons and results ==

Out of the thirteen teams that have played in the Indian Premier League since its inception, one team has won the competition four times, one team has won the competition thrice, one team has won the competition twice and three other teams have won it once. Mumbai Indians are the most successful team in league's history in terms of the number of titles won. The Chennai Super Kings have won 3 titles, the Kolkata Knight Riders have won two titles, and the other three teams who have won the tournament are the Deccan Chargers, Rajasthan Royals and Sunrisers Hyderabad.
The current champions are Mumbai Indians who defeated Chennai Super Kings by a single run in the final of the 2019 season to secure their fourth title and thus became the most successful team in IPL history ever.


=== Teams' performances ===
† No longer exists.


== Awards ==


=== Orange Cap ===
The Orange Cap is awarded to the top run-scorer in the IPL during a season. It is an ongoing competition with the leader wearing the cap throughout the tournament until the final game, with the eventual winner keeping the cap for the season.


=== Purple Cap ===
The Purple Cap is awarded to the top wicket-taker in the IPL during a season. It is an ongoing competition with the leader wearing the cap throughout the tournament until the final game, with the eventual winner keeping the cap for the season.


=== Most Valuable Player ===
The award was called the "man of the tournament" till the 2012 season. The IPL introduced the Most Valuable Player rating system in 2013, the leader of which would be named the "Most Valuable Player" at the end of the season.


== Financials ==


=== Title sponsorship ===
From 2008 to 2012, the title sponsor was DLF, India's largest real estate developer, who had secured the rights with a bid of ₹200 crore (US$28 million) for five seasons. After the conclusion of the 2012 season, PepsiCo bought the title sponsorship rights for ₹397 crore (US$56 million) for the subsequent five seasons. However, the company terminated the deal in October 2015 two years before the expiry of the contract, reportedly due to the two-season suspension of Chennai and Rajasthan franchises from the league. The BCCI then transferred the title sponsorship rights for the remaining two seasons of the contract to Chinese smartphone manufacturer Vivo for ₹200 crore (US$28 million). In June 2017, Vivo retained the rights for the next five seasons (2018–2022) with a winning bid of ₹2,199 crore (US$310 million), in a deal more expensive than Barclays' Premier League title sponsorship contract between 2013 and 2016. On 4 August 2020  Vivo got out of ipl title sponsorship rights because stand off between the two countries India and China at LAC ( line of actual control) in July 2020. It was also reported that the withdrawal was a result of Vivo's market losses due to the ongoing COVID-19 situation and that it intended to return as the title sponsors for the following 3 years. Dream 11 has bagged the rights for ipl 2020 title sponsor for amount of ₹220 core.


=== Brand value ===
The tournament has grown rapidly in value over the years 2016–18, as seen in a series of jumps in value from one season to the next. The IPL as a whole was valued by financial experts at US$4.16 billion in 2016, but that number grew to $5.3 billion in 2017, and $6.13 billion in 2018. A report from Duff and Phelps said that one of the contributing factors in the rapid growth of the value of the Indian Premier League was signing a new television deal with Star India Private Limited, which engaged more viewers due to the fact that the IPL was transmitted to regional channels in 8 different languages, rather than the previous deal, which saw the transmissions limited to sports networks with English language commentary. The report also stated that the game continued to recover from recent controversy, stating "This IPL season has grabbed the eyeballs for all the right reasons with a relatively controversy free tournament, coupled with some scintillating on-field performances which have brought the spotlight back on the game."According to another independent report conducted by Brand Finance, a London-based company, after the conclusion of the 2017 Indian Premier League, the IPL has seen its business value grow by 37% to an all-time high of $5.3 billion — crossing the five billion mark for the first time in a season. According to the director of the company: “Now in its 11th season, the Indian Premier League is here to stay. The league has delivered financially for the players, franchisees, sponsors and India as a whole, prompting a strong desire among a range of stakeholders to appropriately value it. To ensure continued development, management and team owners will have to explore innovative ways of engaging fans, clubs, and sponsors.The valuation of the individual franchises themselves vary, with the top valued teams being the Mumbai Indians ($113 million) and the Kolkata Knight Riders ($104 million). Other franchises mentioned in the report, varied in value from $43 million (Rajasthan Royals) to the Chennai Super Kings ($98 million).


== Broadcasting ==
The IPL's broadcast rights were originally held by a partnership between Sony Pictures Networks and World Sport Group, under a ten-year contract valued at US$1.03 billion. Sony would be responsible for domestic television, while WSG would handle international distribution. The initial plan was for 20% of these proceeds to go to the IPL, 8% as prize money and 72% would be distributed to the franchisees from 2008 until 2012, after which the IPL would go public and list its shares. However, in March 2010, the IPL decided not to go public and list its shares. As of the 2016 season, Sony MAX, Sony SIX, and Sony ESPN served as the domestic broadcasters of the IPL; MAX and SIX aired broadcasts in Hindi, while SIX also aired broadcasts in the Bengali, Tamil, and Telugu languages. Sony ESPN broadcast English-language feeds. Sony also produced an entertainment-oriented companion talk show, Extraaa Innings T20, which featured analysis and celebrity guests.The IPL became a major television property within India; Sony MAX typically became the most-watched television channel in the country during the tournament, and by 2016, annual advertising revenue surpassed ₹12 billion (US$170 million). Viewership numbers were expected to increase further during the 2016 season due to the industry adoption of the new BARC ratings system, which also calculates rural viewership rather than only urban markets. In the 2016 season, Sony's broadcasts achieved just over 1 billion impressions (television viewership in thousands), jumping to 1.25 billion the following year.On 4 September 2017, it was announced that the then-current digital rights-holder, Star India, had acquired the global media rights to the IPL under a five-year contract beginning in 2018. Valued at ₹163.475 billion (US$2.55 billion, £1.97 billion), it is a 158% increase over the previous deal, and the most expensive broadcast rights deal in the history of cricket. The IPL sold the rights in packages for domestic television, domestic digital, and international rights; although Sony held the highest bid for domestic television, and Facebook had made a US$600 million bid for domestic digital rights (which U.S. media interpreted as a sign that the social network was interested in pursuing professional sports rights), Star was the only bidder out of the shortlist of 14 to make bids in all three categories.Star CEO Uday Shankar stated that the IPL was a "very powerful property", and that Star would "remain very committed to make sure that the growth of sports in this country continues to be driven by the power of cricket". He went on to say that "whoever puts in that money, they put in that money because they believe in the fans of the sport. The universe of cricket fans, it tells you, continues to very healthy, continues to grow. What was paid in 2008, that was 2008. India and cricket and IPL—all three have changed dramatically in the last 10 years. It is a reflection of that." The deal led to concerns that Star India now held a monopoly on major cricket rights in the country, as it is also the rights-holder of ICC competitions and the Indian national team.For its inaugural season, Star aimed to put a larger focus on widening the IPL's appeal with a "core" cricket audience. The network aimed to broadcast at least two hours of IPL-related programming daily from January until the start of the season, having organised televised announcements of player retention selections and new team captains. Viewership of the player auction, which featured pre- and post-auction reactions and analysis, increased six-fold to 46.5 million. In March, Star Sports broadcast Game Plan: In Your City specials from the home city of each of the IPL's franchises. Star Sports stated that its in-season coverage and studio programming would focus more on the game itself and behind-the-scenes coverage of the IPL's teams, rather than trying to incorporate irrelevant entertainment elements. The network introduced a new studio program known as The Dugout, which broadcasts coverage of matches with analysis from a panel of experts.Star broadcasts IPL matches live online in India via its over-the-top video streaming platform Hotstar to subscribers of Hotstar VIP or Hotstar Premium. Matches are also available on Jio TV and Airtel TV apps on smartphones. Throughout the 2019 season, international streaming viewership on Hotstar saw records, exceeding 10 million concurrent viewers multiple times. The 2019 final broke these records, peaking at 18.6 million concurrent streaming viewers.Due to tournament's popularity, Disney (the owner of Star India) decided to launch their streaming service Disney+ (via Hotstar) in India on March 29, 2020, coincidentally with the beginning of the 2020 season. However, with the postponement of the season due to 2019-2020 coronavirus pandemic, the service was nonetheless launched on April 3, 2020 with a short delay.


=== International broadcasters ===


== IPL Governing Council ==
The IPL Governing Council is responsible for all the functions of the tournament. The members are Rajeev Shukla, Ajay Shirke, Sourav Ganguly, Anurag Thakur and Anirudh Chaudhary. In January 2016, the Supreme Court appointed Lodha Committee to recommend separate governing bodies for the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and the Indian Premier League (IPL), where Justice RM Lodha suggested a One State-One Member pattern for the board.


== Sponsorship controversy ==
The 2020 VIVO IPL faced heavy criticism for retaining Chinese sponsors for the 2020 IPL even amidst calls for boycotting Chinese goods even while the 2020 China–India skirmishes were still going on. Omar Abdullah and Randeep Singh Surjewala both criticized the BCCI/IPL governing council's decision to retain the Chinese sponsors. Swadeshi Jagran Manch, an affiliate of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) said that the 2020 VIVO IPL should not feature the Chinese company VIVO.


== See also ==

Controversies involving the Indian Premier League
List of current Indian Premier League team rosters
List of Indian Premier League players
List of Indian Premier League records and statistics


== References ==


== External links ==
Official websiteThe Mumbai Indians  are a franchise cricket team based in the city of Mumbai, Maharashtra, that play in the Indian Premier League (IPL).
Founded in 2008, the team is owned by India's biggest conglomerate, Reliance Industries, through its 100% subsidiary IndiaWin Sports. Since its establishment, the team has played its home matches in the 33,108-capacity Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai.
In 2017, the Mumbai Indians became the first franchise to cross the $100 million mark in brand value among the IPL franchises. The brand value of Mumbai Indians, in 2019, is estimated to be around ₹809 crore (roughly $115 million), the highest among all the IPL franchises for the fourth consecutive year.Mumbai Indians is the most successful team in the IPL. They won the 2011 Champions League Twenty20 after beating Royal Challengers Bangalore by 31 runs in the final. The team won the double by winning its first IPL title, in 2013, by defeating Chennai Super Kings by 23 runs in the final, and then defeated the Rajasthan Royals by 33 runs to win its second Champions League Twenty20 title later that year. They won their second IPL title on 24 May 2015 by defeating the Chennai Super Kings by 41 runs in the final and became the third team to win more than one IPL title. On 21 May 2017, they won their third IPL title by defeating the Rising Pune Supergiant by 1 run in a thrilling final, thus becoming the first team to win three IPL titles. While playing the tournament, they won their 100th T20, becoming the first team to do so. In 2019, they repeated the same feat as they won a record breaking fourth IPL title, by beating CSK by just 1 run on 12 May 2019 in IPL Final.
Mumbai Indians are currently captained by Rohit Sharma. Mahela Jayawardene was appointed as head coach of Mumbai Indians before the 2017 season. Sharma is the leading run scorer of the team while Lasith Malinga is the leading wicket taker of the team and the IPL as well.


== Franchise history ==
The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) announced in September 2007 the establishment of the Indian Premier League, a Twenty20 competition to be started in 2008. In January 2008, the BCCI unveiled the owners of eight city-based franchises. The Mumbai franchise was sold to the Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) for $111.9 million, making it the most expensive team to be sold in the league. RIL, owned by Mukesh Ambani acquired the rights to the franchise for a period of 10 years. The franchise was eventually named "Mumbai Indians".


== Team history ==


=== 2008–2009: Struggle in the initial seasons ===
The Indian Premier League named four players as icon players for their respective city franchises which made the players unavailable to play for any team other than their city team. Sachin Tendulkar was named Mumbai's icon player. The icon player was also entitled to earn 15% more than the next-best paid player in their team. At first player auctions for the inaugural IPL season conducted in February 2008, the Mumbai franchise bought several star international cricketers such as Sanath Jayasuriya, Harbhajan Singh, Shaun Pollock, Lasith Malinga and Robin Uthappa. The franchise named Sachin Tendulkar as the captain of the team and appointed former India cricketer Lalchand Rajput as the head coach. However, Tendulkar was injured before the start of the 2008 season due to which Harbhajan Singh took over as the captain in the initial stage of the season. The team got off to a bad start in the season losing their first four games by some comprehensive margins. Their first match was a five-wicket defeat to the Royal Challengers Bangalore on 20 April 2008 at the Wankhede. Their stand-in captain, Harbhajan, was suspended from the tournament for reportedly slapping Sreesanth during Mumbai's league match against Kings XI Punjab. After Harbhajan's suspension, Shaun Pollock assumed the leadership duties until Tendulkar's return on 24 May. Under Pollock's captaincy, Mumbai won six out of their next six games which left them needing to win two more out of the remaining four matches to qualify for the semifinals. Mumbai suffered three last-over defeats in the next three games, including two off the last ball, before winning their last league match. They finished fifth in the points table with 7 wins and 7 losses, missing out on a semifinal spot by just one point.The 2009 season was played in South Africa as it coincided with multi-phase 2009 Indian general elections due to which the Government of India refused to commit the Indian paramilitary forces to provide security for the IPL. Before the start of the season, Mumbai Indians traded Robin Uthappa for Zaheer Khan with Royal Challengers Bangalore, and Ashish Nehra for Shikhar Dhawan with the Delhi Daredevils. Shaun Pollock retired after the first season and became the head coach of the team. Lasith Malinga, who missed the previous season due to an injury, returned to the team. At the player auction, Mumbai bought South African batsman JP Duminy to strengthen their batting department. After winning their opening match against the Chennai Super Kings, Mumbai struggled to put up consistent performances during the season. They relied heavily on Duminy and Tendulkar's batting, and Malinga's bowling along with minimal contributions from other players. With only five wins from 14 matches, Mumbai finished on seventh place in the league table.


=== 2010–2012: Rise as a strong team ===

At the 2010 players auction, Mumbai Indians bought Trinidadian all-rounder Kieron Pollard for $750,000 following a secret tiebreaker. After the auction, they signed up ten uncapped Indian players out whom seven were former ICL players. Former India cricketer Robin Singh was named as the head coach of the team as Pollock took up the role of bowling coach. Mumbai had to shift their home venue to Brabourne Stadium for the season since the Wankhede was undergoing renovation to host some matches of the 2011 ICC Cricket World Cup. Mumbai won seven of their first eight games to take the top spot in the points table. Their success was mainly due to the efforts of Tendulkar, Malinga, Harbhajan, Ambati Rayudu and Saurabh Tiwary. They won three of the remaining six league games and finished with 20 points from 14 games at the top of the points table. They beat the Royal Challengers Bangalore by 35 runs in the semifinal, thanks to Pollard's all-round efforts (33* from 13 balls, and 3/17). At the final, they were defeated by the Chennai Super Kings by 22 runs. The Mumbai team management was criticised for the "strategic errors" during the final such as sending Abhishek Nayar and Harbhajan at batting positions 3 and 4 respectively while Duminy and Pollard were sent at 7 and 8. Mumbai skipper Sachin Tendulkar, who scored 618 runs at an average of 47.53 and strike rate of 132.6, won the Orange Cap for scoring most runs in the season. Mumbai qualified for the 2010 Champions League Twenty20 where they were eliminated in the group stage with two wins and two defeats in four matches.
In 2011, with the addition of two new teams to the IPL, the IPL Governing Council declared that each franchise could retain a maximum of four players of their 2010 squad, and the rest of the international players would be auctioned. Mumbai Indians retained Tendulkar, Harbhajan, Pollard and Malinga for a sum of $4.5 million. This retention left the franchise with the power of spending $4.5 million at the auction where they purchased Indian batsman Rohit Sharma for $2 million, former Australian all-rounder Andrew Symonds for $850,000, and pacer Munaf Patel for $700,000. Mumbai won eight of their first ten league games following which they suffered a loss of form that led to three consecutive defeats and a last-ball win in their last league match. They finished third on the points table with 18 points from 14 games and qualified for the Eliminator. The Eliminator was played at the Wankhede where Mumbai faced the Kolkata Knight Riders. After winning the toss and electing to bowl first, Mumbai restricted Kolkata to 147 in 20 overs and chased down the target for the loss of six wickets with four balls to spare. Munaf Patel won the Man of the Match for his bowling figures of 3/27. With this win, Mumbai qualified for the Qualifying final against Royal Challengers Bangalore, the winner of which would play the Super Kings in the final. Mumbai skipper Tendulkar won the toss once again and put their opposition into bat who set Mumbai a target of 186. Mumbai kept losing wickets at regular intervals from the start of their innings and could score only 142/8, falling short by 43 runs. The top two leading wicket-takers of the season were Mumbai Indians pacers Lasith Malinga and Munaf Patel with 28 and 22 wickets respectively.
Mumbai qualified for the 2011 Champions League Twenty20 held in India. Before the start of the tournament, six first-choice Indian players in the Mumbai squad including Tendulkar, Sharma and Patel were ruled out of the tournament due to injuries and two more Indian players were ruled out based on medical reports. This left their 14-member squad with only six Indian players, while the tournament allowed a maximum of four overseas players and minimum of seven local players in the playing eleven. An exception was made for the Mumbai Indians which permitted them to field five overseas players during the tournament. Harbhajan was named the stand-in captain in the absence of Tendulkar. Mumbai were placed in Group A alongside Chennai Super Kings, New South Wales Blues, Cape Cobras and Trinidad & Tobago. Mumbai had two wins, one defeat and one no result in the group stage which gave them the second place on the group points table with five points. They qualified for the semifinal and Mumbai batsman Suryakumar Yadav returned to the squad after recovering from his injury. This led to the withdrawal of the concession given by the Champions League for the Mumbai Indians to field five overseas players. Mumbai faced Somerset County Cricket Club in the semifinal at Chennai. Batting first, Mumbai made 160/5 in 20 overs. Somerset's chase was dented by Malinga who picked four wickets for 20 (all bowled) to help Mumbai restrict Somerset to 150 and win the match by 10 runs. The final was also played in Chennai where Mumbai met Royal Challengers Bangalore. Mumbai batted first and managed only 139 in 20 overs. Bangalore started strongly in the run-chase putting 38 for the first wicket before Malinga broke the partnership. Harbhajan then picked up the key wickets of Chris Gayle and Virat Kohli triggering a batting collapse and eventually Bangalore were bowled out for 108, giving Mumbai a 31-run victory and their first-ever title. Harbahajan was named player of the match and Malinga won the man of the tournament award. Andrew Symonds retired from all forms of cricket in early 2012.
Before the start of the 2012 season, the Mumbai Indians traded Dinesh Karthik from Kings XI Punjab and Pragyan Ojha from the Deccan Chargers for undisclosed sums. At the auction, the franchise bought five players including R. P. Singh, Thisara Perera (both for $600,000) and Mitchell Johnson. Tendulkar stepped down from captaincy hours before the season's first game following which Harbhajan was appointed as the captain. In the first half of the league stage, Mumbai had four wins and four defeats, including three losses at home. Mumbai did not have a fixed opening combination, with Tendulkar missing out four matches due to an injury and other opening batsmen failing to show consistency. Johnson was ruled out of rest of the season in late-April with an injury and Dwayne Smith was named his replacement in the squad. Mumbai fared better in the second half of the league stage, winning six of their eight matches. They finished third on the points table with 20 points from 16 matches and qualified for the Eliminator against the fourth-placed Chennai Super Kings at Bangalore. Mumbai won the toss and put Chennai in to bat first. After losing two wickets inside the first two overs, Chennai managed to put up 187/5 in 20 overs mainly because of their captain MS Dhoni's unbeaten 20-ball 51. Mumbai's chase had started solidly with the score reading 47/0 in the fifth over, before they started losing wickets at regular intervals to end at 149/9 and lose the match by 38 runs. They gained direct qualification to the 2012 Champions League Twenty20 in South Africa, along with the three IPL teams that finished at the top that season. Mumbai, placed in Group B, were winless in the tournament with three defeats and one no result.


=== 2013: The IPL and CLT20 Double ===

The 2013 IPL saw Anil Kumble being appointed as the chief mentor, after he quit a similar position from Royal Challengers Bangalore. With a slump in batting form of Ricky Ponting, he was eventually dropped from the playing eleven and Rohit Sharma took lead of the team. Having the experienced advice of the likes of Anil Kumble, Jonty Rhodes and Sachin Tendulkar, the team emerged victorious in IPL 2013.
In the year 2013 Mumbai Indians started off by losing against the Royal Challengers Bangalore because of the efforts of Chris Gayle and pace bowler Vinay Kumar but they were able to make a comeback in that match because of Dinesh Karthik due to which Mumbai lost by just one run. In the second match against the Chennai Super Kings the openers went off cheaply but because of the efforts of Dinesh Karthik and Kieron Pollard Mumbai had put a defendable score on the board. The Mumbai Indians bowlers started off well by dismissing Murali Vijay cheaply and the match went off till the last over with the Super Kings needing 16 off the last over with MS Dhoni on strike and Munaf Patel to bowl; Patel dismissed Dhoni on the first ball and Mumbai won the match comfortably by 9 runs. In their third match against the Delhi Daredevils Mumbai once again lost their openers Ricky Ponting and Sachin Tendulkar cheaply and this time it was again Dinesh Karthik who brought the match in Mumbai's grasp, but this time it was not Kieron Pollard, but it was Rohit Sharma with him which helped the Mumbai Indians reach the formidable score of 209/5. At one stage it looked that David Warner would snatch the game away from Mumbai but the Mumbai Indians bowlers got rid of David Warner by dismissing him and then the Delhi Daredevils collapsed due to which Mumbai Indians won comfortably by 44 runs. In the next match against the Pune Warriors India Mumbai got off to a flying start with a 54-run opening stand between the so-called Pon-dulkar (Ricky Ponting and Sachin Tendulkar) and then it was followed by Rohit Sharma due to which Mumbai scored 183/3 and won the match comfortably by 41 runs. In the next match against the Rajasthan Royals Mumbai were bundled out for just 92 giving the Rajasthan Royals an 83-run victory due to which Ricky Ponting stepped down as a captain and retired from all forms of cricket. With Rohit Sharma in good batting form, he was made the captain. Under his captaincy the Mumbai Indians improved a lot and won their first IPL title.
They continued their winning streak in the Champions League. But in the Champions League, too, they had quite slow start which saw them having to win their final match of the league stage against the Perth Scorchers by a margin; they did it by the combined efforts of Nathan Coulter-Nile, Dwayne Smith and skipper Rohit Sharma. In the final Glenn Maxwell scored a quick fire 14-ball 37. Mumbai posted 202/6 and won the match comfortably by 33 runs.
2014–2018
In 2014 Mumbai didn't start off well losing 5 of their matches in the UAE leg against Kolkata Knight Riders, Royal Challengers Bangalore, Chennai Super Kings and Delhi Daredevils by big margins but did well in their 5th match against Sunrisers Hyderabad but consequently lost the matches against respective opponents.
In the Indian leg they made a comeback by beating Kings XI Punjab who were at the top of the table at that time. After that they were inconsistent with their performance. They won against Royal Challengers Bangalore but lost against Chennai Super Kings. They won against the Sunrisers Hyderabad and again lost against Kolkata Knight Riders. But after losing against the Kolkata Knight Riders they won against Kings XI Punjab and the Delhi Daredevils respectively.
In the match against Kings XI Punjab, Lendl Simmons scored a hundred due to which they won comfortably by seven wickets.
With one game left to play they were fifth in the table with 12 points. In the last league-stage match of the season against Rajasthan Royals who were fourth in the league table with 14 points they needed to win by a big margin so as to leapfrog the opponent into the fourth spot and claim the play-offs spot too. Rajasthan Royals set the target of 190 runs but Mumbai Indians had to reach the target in 14.3 overs in order to improve the net run rate and claim the fourth position in the table but they just managed a tie with the Rajasthan Royals in 14.3 overs. So the Mumbai Indians needed a boundary off the next ball to push Rajasthan Royals below and claim that fourth spot and Aditya Tare hit a six to a full toss bowled by James Faulkner. Due to that six they reached the play-offs of IPL but lost against the Chennai Super Kings in the eliminator which ended their IPL 2014 campaign.
The Mumbai Indians qualified in the qualifier round of the CLT20 2014. Due to injury to their skipper Rohit Sharma, Kieron Pollard was named as their captain.
In the first match they faced the FBT20 2014 champions Lahore Lions but they lost against them with Lahore Lions winning by 6 wickets in 18.4 overs. In the second match, they faced the Southern Express, who had a slow start and lost wickets regularly but managed to score 161/6 in 20 overs. The Mumbai Indians started off with an excellent opening partnership of 139 runs in just 14 overs but lost their first wicket on the 4th ball of the 15th over but skipper Kieron Pollard ended things off in blistering way, scoring 20 runs from just 7 balls. But in the last match against the Northern Knights they just managed 132 runs which the Northern Knights won comfortably 6 wickets with 16 balls to spare. In this way Mumbai's CLT20 2014 campaign ended.
Mumbai Indians won their second IPL title in 2015 after they defeated Chennai Super Kings by 41 runs. They started the season with 4 IPL defeats mainly due to their bowling. They lost Aaron Finch and Corey Anderson due to injury for the rest of the season, which meant Lendl Simmons got a chance back into the team and with the help of 6 half-centuries, gave the team solid starts throughout the season. He was the top scorer for Mumbai with 540 runs and joint second (with Ajinkya Rahane) in total for the season behind David Warner. The introduction of another strike bowler Mitchell McClenaghan in the team provided good support to Lasith Malinga upfront. Mumbai went on to win 9 out of their last 10 Matches to win the title, thanks to solid batting performances from Simmons, Rohit Sharma, Ambati Rayudu and Kieron Pollard and good bowling from Malinga, McClenaghan and Harbhajan Singh.
In the Vivo IPL 2016 Auction they bought Tim Southee, Nathu Singh, Jos Buttler, Jitesh Sharma, KP Kamath, Krunal Pandya and Deepak Punia. They finished the season in the fifth spot in the points table.
In IPL 2017, the Mumbai Indians finished at the top of the points table, winning 10 out of 14 matches. They went on to win the trophy after beating Rising Pune Supergiant in a nail-biting finish which is often hailed as the best IPL match and IPL final till date. This was their 3rd IPL title and with it they became the most successful team in the history of IPL.
In IPL 2018, the Mumbai Indians finished at fifth spot after winning 6 and losing 8 matches.2019–current
In the year 2019, Mumbai Indians and Chennai Super Kings played in the final of Vivo IPL 2019 where Mumbai defeated Chennai by 1 run to become champions for the record 4th time. The final of 2019 had a thriller end which saw Chennai Super Kings needing 2 runs off the last delivery where Mumbai Indians bowler Lasith Malinga took wicket on last delivery and won the match for Mumbai Indians. Mumbai Indians defeated Chennai Super Kings by 1 run to lift the IPL trophy for the record fourth time. Mumbai Indians became the only team to have four IPL trophies, and the most successful team ever.
Hardik Pandya and Kieron Pollard won 'Harrier Super Striker of the Match' title for 2 and 3 times respectively. Hardik Pandya scored 91 runs off just 34 balls against Kolkata Knight Riders and made the fastest 50 off just 17 balls in that match.
Alzzari Joseph recorded the best bowling figures 6/12 in IPL history in the match against Sunrisers Hyderabad which was also his IPL debut.
In IPL auction 2020, Mumbai Indians added 6 new names that are Chris Lynn (2 crore), Nathan Coulter-Nile (8 crore), Saurabh Tiwary (50 lakh), Mohsin Khan (20 lakh), Digvijay Deshmukh (20 lakh), Balwant Rai Singh (20 lakh), to their squad.


== Home Ground ==

The Mumbai Indians played home games at the DY Patil Stadium in Navi Mumbai for the first two 
IPL seasons. In the third season, in 2010, they played all seven home games at the Brabourne Stadium while the Wankhede Stadium underwent renovation to host group matches and the final of the 2011 ICC Cricket World Cup. Mumbai Indians won six out of the seven matches at the Brabourne Stadium that season.
Mumbai Indians now play their home games at Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai. The stadium is named after former BCCI President S. K. Wankhede. The stadium is owned by the Mumbai Cricket Association and has a seating capacity of around 45,000.


== Team identity ==
The Mumbai Indians were the most watched team on television in the first and second season of the IPL, totalling to 239 million viewers. After posting a revenue of ₹69 crore and expenditure of ₹85 crore, the first season left the owners with net loss of INR 16 crore and were expected to break even in the 2009 season.


=== Team name, motto and logo design ===
The motto of the team is "Duniya Hila Denge Hum...", which translates to We will rock the world. The first anthem of Mumbai Indians was based on this motto, wherein the Bollywood actor Hrithik Roshan was roped in for a promotional video campaign.The team logo is the Sudarshan Chakra (or Razor) as initially the name of the team was supposed to be "Mumbai Razors" before Sachin Tendulkar suggested to keep it Mumbai Indians.


=== Jersey colours ===
The team's primary colour is blue with silver stripes on either sides of the jersey. The team colours was almost the same in 2008 and 2009, with Idea as the principal sponsor, except for the colour shade and additional sponsors. In 2010, a new kit with golden stripes was unveiled. In 2011, kit used in 2010 is being used with Hero Honda as the main sponsor. The 2011 jersey also has three gold stripes going towards the back on the side of the jersey for the new players in the team. The kit manufacturer was Adidas from the start of IPL in 2008 till 2014. In 2015, Performax, an in-house brand of Reliance Trends, replaced Adidas as the kit manufacturer.


=== Theme song ===
The current theme song of the Mumbai Indians is the famous "Duniya Hila Denge". Also, after every boundary or a wicket by the team, a fan-made song titled "Akkha Mumbai Khelega" is always played by the stadium disc jockey.


== Players ==
During the player auction in 2008, the Mumbai Indians successfully bid for seven players, including two members of the Indian Twenty-20 World Cup winning side, Harbhajan Singh and Robin Uthappa. Sanath Jayasuriya, Lasith Malinga, Luke Ronchi, Dilhara Fernando and Shaun Pollock were other cricketers who were successfully bid for by the franchise.Outside of the player auction, the franchise also signed up Ajinkya Rahane and Abhishek Nayar (from Mumbai), Yogesh Takawale (WK-Batsman from Maharashtra) and Pinal Shah (WK-Batsman from Baroda). Saurabh Tiwary and Manish Pandey, the members of the U-19 world-cup winning team were the random picks drafted in during the BCCI held second auction. Dominic Thornely was also signed by the Mumbai Indians for a sum of $30,000. André Nel the South African fast bowler was signed on in the place of Dwayne Bravo who left the tournament early.In the 2009 player auction, the Mumbai Indians signed up South African player, JP Duminy for $950,000. He was the third most expensive pick after Kevin Pietersen and Andrew Flintoff (both signed up for $1.55 million by Royal Challengers Bangalore and Chennai Super Kings respectively). In addition Kyle Mills and Mohammad Ashraful for $150,000 and $75,000 respectively were bought by MI management. The team also signed Graham Napier and Ryan McLaren at the pre-auction signings.
In the IPL 2010 Mumbai Indians bought West Indian all-rounder Kieron Pollard for $750,000 ($2,750,000) after a silent tie-breaker with Chennai Super Kings, Royal Challengers Bangalore and the Kolkata Knight Riders, after he impressed teams with his performances at Big Bash and Champions League.
In 2011, as two new teams were added to the IPL, the IPL Governing Council declared that each franchise could retain a maximum of four players of their squad, only three of whom can be Indian players, and the rest of the international players would be put in the mega-auction. The Mumbai franchise, keen to have the same set of core players, retained captain Sachin Tendulkar, vice-captain Harbhajan Singh, all-rounder Kieron Pollard and fast bowler Lasith Malinga for a total of $4.5 million. The retention left them with the power of spending only $4.5 million at the mega-auction. At the auction, they purchased Rohit Sharma as one of the costliest players in the auction along with Munaf Patel, Andrew Symonds, Aiden Blizzard, a hard-hitting Australian batsman and James Franklin, an all rounder from New Zealand.
At the 2012 IPL player auction, Mumbai Indians bought South Africans Richard Levi and Robin Peterson for $50,000 and $100,000 respectively, Australian fast bowler Mitchell Johnson for $300,000, Indian fast bowler R. P. Singh for $600,000 and Sri Lankan all-rounder Thisara Perera for $650,000.
After the auctions, Mumbai Indians managed to get South African explosive opener Richard Levi, who shot into limelight after hitting the fastest century in T20 international cricket and hitting a record 13 sixes, after a bidding war with Pune Warriors India. Richard Levi was brought in as a replacement for Andrew Symonds, who retired from all forms of the game citing family reasons. Sachin Tendulkar stepped down as Mumbai Indians captain ahead of the IPL 2012 season-opener against Chennai.
At the 2013 IPL player auction, Former Australian Captain Ricky Ponting was purchased by Mumbai Indians for $400,000 and he became the new captain for sixth edition of IPL. Also at the auction, Glenn Maxwell was purchased by Mumbai Indians. Also Phillip Hughes, Nathan Coulter-Nile, Jacob Oram were purchased by MI Management.


=== Transfers ===
In the 2008–2009 transfer window, Mumbai Indians conducted two straight swap deals, with no money exchanged. Ashish Nehra was swapped with Shikhar Dhawan of Delhi Daredevils and on the last day of the transfer window, Robin Uthappa was swapped with Zaheer Khan of Royal Challengers Bangalore, who plays for Mumbai in the Ranji Trophy. In a three-way trade, Jaydev Shah of the Rajasthan Royals – captain of the Saurashtra Ranji squad that made it to the semi-finals and son of former cricket board secretary Niranjan Shah – will move to the Mumbai Indians.
During the transfer window, Mumbai Indians was the first team to induct a new player in their squad. Tamil Nadu wicket-keeper Dinesh Karthik transferred to Mumbai Indians for $2.35 million (Rs 12.4 crores approximately). Also making a switch was Rajagopal Sathish, who moved to Kings XI Punjab for an undisclosed amount. In their latest trade, Indian left-arm spinner Pragyan Ojha has transferred to Mumbai Indians from Deccan Chargers for an undisclosed amount, while letting Ali Murtaza move to Pune Warriors India.
On 4 November 2014, Mumbai Indians acquired Unmukt Chand, Aaron Finch and Vinay Kumar for 2015 IPL. Parthiv Patel also joined the Mumbai Indians squad for the 8th edition of IPL in the transfer window period. Aaron Finch along with Mitchell Mcclenaghan joined Mumbai Indians in the 2015 IPL Auction.


== Seasons ==
KeyDNQ = Did not qualify
TBD = To be decided


== Squad ==
Players with international caps are listed in bold.
 *  denotes a player who is currently unavailable for selection.
 *  denotes a player who is unavailable for rest of the season.


== Administration and support staff ==
Owner –  Nita Ambani,  Mukesh Ambani
Team manager -  Rahul Sanghvi
Director of Cricket Operations -  Zaheer Khan
Head coach –  Mahela Jayawardene
Batting coach –  Robin Singh
Batting mentor -  Sachin Tendulkar
Bowling coach -  Shane Bond
Fielding coach –  James Pamment
Talent scouts -  John Wright,  T. A. Sekhar,  Abey Kuruvilla,  Kiran More,  Pravin Amre
Physiotherapist -  Nitin Patel
Strength and conditioning coach -  Paul Chapman
Sports massage therapist -  Amit Shah
Video analyst -  L. Varun
Assistant physiotherapist -  Ashutosh Nimse
Assistant trainer -  Pratik Kadam
Assistant trainer -  Nagendra Prasad
Nutritionist -  Kinita Kadakia Patel


== Head Coach Record ==
Note: Record also includes matches played in Champions League T20


== Kit manufacturers and sponsors ==
American multinational corporation – MasterCard was the official founding sponsor of the Mumbai Indians, while Adidas was their official apparel sponsor until 2014. Since then, the UAE's national carrier Etihad Airways signed a three-year contract and took over as one of the principle sponsors of Mumbai Indians. In 2015, Performax, the in-house brand of Reliance Trends, took over as the apparel sponsors. Associate sponsors and official partners include Bridgestone, Dheeraj and East Coast LLC, Kingfisher, Wrigley's Orbit, Wrigley's Boomer, Royal Stag, Air India, MSN and Red FM 93.5.Hero MotoCorp was also one of the main sponsors of Mumbai Indians for 2011 and 2012 seasons. The principal sponsors of Mumbai Indians are Videocon d2h since 2013. In 2015, companies such as USHA, Jack & Jones, HTC, Tiny Owl, Paytm, Ola Cabs, DNA and Fever 104 FM came on board. From 2016, DHFL and Samsung joined as the new associate sponsors. Along with them Pepsi, yatra.com, Radio City, LYF smartphones and Guvera came in as the new official sponsors. The global fashion brand Diesel's first ever association with cricket will produce a limited edition collection which will be available globally across popular cricket playing nations.


== Rivalry with Chennai Super Kings ==

Chennai Super Kings and Mumbai Indians have played against each other more number of times than any other two teams in the IPL. They are the two most successful IPL teams and often termed as "big spenders" at the players auction. The two sides have met each other at the final of the IPL four times, with Mumbai winning thrice and Chennai winning once. Super Kings have a better head to head record against every other team in IPL except Mumbai. The rivalry is often referred to as the El Clasico of IPL.


== Philanthropy ==

Mumbai Indians have supported the social cause of education to the underprivileged. They have raised funds for the cause via selling merchandise like wristbands signed by their players. The NGOs supported are Pratham, Ummeed, Akanksha, Teach For India and Nanhi Kali.


== Statistics ==


=== Overall results in the IPL ===
Last updated 6 May 2019


=== By opposition ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Official websiteThe Royal Challengers Bangalore (often abbreviated as RCB) are  a franchise cricket team based in Bangalore, Karnataka, that plays in the Indian Premier League (IPL). It was founded in 2008 by United Spirits and named after the company's liquor brand Royal Challenge. Since its inception, the team has played its home matches at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium.
The Royal Challengers have never won the IPL but finished runners-up on three occasions between 2009 and 2016. Their lack of success over the years despite the presence of various notable players has earned them the tag of "underachievers." The team holds the records of both the highest and the lowest totals in the IPL – 263/5 and 49 respectively.


== Franchise history ==
In September 2007, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) announced the establishment of the Indian Premier League, a Twenty20 competition to be started in 2008. The teams for the competition, representing 8 different cities of India, including Bangalore, were put up on auction in Mumbai on 20 February 2008. The Bangalore franchise was purchased by Vijay Mallya, who paid US$111.6 million for it. This was the second highest bid for a team, next only to Reliance Industries' bid of US$111.9 million for the Mumbai Indians.
The brand value of Royal Challengers Bangalore was estimated to be ₹595 crore (US$83 million) in 2019, according to a survey conducted by Duff & Phelps.


== Team history ==


=== 2008–2010: Initial seasons ===

Ahead of the 2008 player auction, the IPL named Rahul Dravid as the icon player for the Bangalore franchise, which meant that Dravid would be paid 15% more than the highest bid player at the auction. The franchise acquired a number of Indian and international players at the auction such as Jacques Kallis, Anil Kumble, Zaheer Khan, Mark Boucher, Dale Steyn and Cameron White. They also signed up Ross Taylor, Misbah-ul-Haq and India under-19 World Cup winning captain Virat Kohli in the second round of auction. The team won only 4 of the 14 matches in the inaugural season, finishing seventh in the eight-team table. Only Dravid managed to score more than 300 runs in the tournament and they had to even bench their costliest foreign player Kallis for a few of the matches due to his poor form. The string of failures midway through the season led to the sacking of the CEO Charu Sharma, who was replaced with Brijesh Patel. Team owner Vijay Mallya went on to publicly criticize Dravid and Sharma for the players selected by them at the auction and stated that his "biggest mistake was to abstain from the selection of the team." Eventually the chief cricketing officer Martin Crowe resigned.At the 2009 player auction, the franchise signed up Kevin Pietersen for a record sum of US$1.55 million, making him the joint costliest player, along with fellow Englishman Andrew Flintoff who was signed up by the Chennai Super Kings for the same amount. They also traded Zaheer Khan for Robin Uthappa with the Mumbai Indians and also roped in local batsman Manish Pandey from them. Ahead of the tournament, which was shifted to South Africa due to the general elections, the Royal Challengers named Pietersen as the team captain for the season. Bangalore continued to struggle during the initial games of the 2009 season, winning only two of their first six games under the new captain. However, the team's fortunes improved after Pietersen left for national duty and Kumble took over the captaincy, as the team went on to win six of their remaining eight league games to finish third on the points table. The team qualified for the semifinal where they faced the Super Kings. Electing to field first, Bangalore restricted their opponents to 146 and chased down the total with 5 wickets in hand, thanks to 48 and 44 by Pandey and Dravid respectively. In the final against Deccan Chargers, the Royal Challengers bowlers, led by Kumble's 4 for 16, kept the Chargers down to 143/6. However, they struggled in the runchase, with only four batsmen reaching double figures, and lost the match by six runs in a tense finish.

In 2010, the Royal Challengers continued under Kumble's captaincy and finished the regular season with seven wins from 14 matches and 14 points. They were one of the four teams tied on 14 points with two semifinal spots at stake; they qualified for the semifinal as their net run rate was superior to those of the Delhi Daredevils and the Kolkata Knight Riders. In the semifinal, the Royal Challengers were defeated by the table-toppers Mumbai Indians by 35 runs. With a convincing nine-wicket win over defending champions Deccan Chargers in the third-place playoff, the Royal Challengers qualified for the 2010 Champions League Twenty20. Kumble retired at the conclusion of the Champions League, having led the team to the semifinals of both the IPL and the CLT20 that year.


=== 2011–2017: Gayle-Kohli-de Villiers era ===

On 8 January 2011, IPL Governing Council held the auction for the season 4 of the league. The franchises had the option of retaining a maximum of four players for a sum of US$4.5 million. Royal Challengers however retained only one of their players, Virat Kohli, leaving the rest of the players back in the auction pool. When other IPL franchises let go the non-performers from each of their teams, RCB lost the top performers from the previous season by releasing them back to auction pool.
On Day-One of the auction, Bangalore bought Sri Lankan Tillakaratne Dilshan for $650,000, their former player and Mumbai Indians spearhead Zaheer Khan for $900,000, ace middle order batsman AB de Villiers for $1.1 million, former New Zealand skipper Daniel Vettori for $550,000, India's new sensation, who played with Mumbai Indians until last season, Saurabh Tiwary for a whopping $1.6 million; Australia's Dirk Nannes for $650,000 and India's young talent Cheteshwar Pujara for $700,000. West Indian batsman Chris Gayle was brought in as a replacement for the injured Dirk Nannes in the middle of the tournament. Vettori led the side for the fourth season of the IPL.
RCB kicked off their campaign with a comfortable six-wicket win over the newly formed team, Kochi Tuskers Kerala. But then they suffered three big defeats at the hands of Mumbai Indians, Deccan Chargers and Chennai Super Kings. At this stage, speedster Dirk Nannes was ruled out of the tournament and RCB team management named West Indian opener Chris Gayle as his replacement. Gayle started off the tournament with a century (102* off 55 balls) against Kolkata Knight Riders, giving the Challengers an emphatic 9-wicket win. RCB also managed to beat Delhi Daredevils and Pune Warriors in their next two matches. They went on to beat Kings XI Punjab by a big margin of 85 runs, after Gayle smashed his second century of the tournament (107 off 49 balls). They won their next two matches against Kochi and Rajasthan Royals, both comprehensively by 9 wickets. They also defeated Kolkata in a rain-affected match at Bangalore. But then, Kings XI Punjab, riding on a blistering hundred by their skipper Adam Gilchrist, ended RCB's 7-match winning streak, with a huge 111-run margin win. In their last league match, the Challengers beat the defending champions Chennai Super Kings by 8 wickets to end at the top of the points table. Chris Gayle shining once again with the bat, scoring an unbeaten 75 off 50 balls.
Royal Challengers faced Chennai Super Kings in the 1st qualifier at Mumbai. Virat Kohli scored an unbeaten 70 off just 44 balls to help RCB put up 175/4 in their 20 overs. Despite losing early wickets, Chennai went on to win the match by 6 wickets. The win took Chennai to the final and RCB faced Mumbai Indians in the 2nd qualifier in Chennai. Batting first, Royal Challengers made a massive 185/4 in 20 overs on a slow Chepauk track. Chris Gayle was the star once again for them as he scored a blistering 89 runs off 47 balls. Mumbai never looked in the hunt for a win as they collapsed to a 43-run defeat. The Royal Challengers qualified for the finals with this win and went on to face Chennai at their home ground in the finals. Winning the toss, Chennai elected to bat first in the finals. The Super Kings posted a huge total of 205/5. The Challengers did not bat well and lost the match by 58 runs. Chris Gayle was named Man of the Tournament and Bangalore set a new IPL record for the most successive wins by winning 7 matches on the trot.
Royal Challengers Bangalore qualified for the main event of the 2011 Champions League Twenty20 as they finished runners-up in the 2011 Indian Premier League, this made the Challengers the first and only team ever to play in all the three seasons of the tournament. The Challengers, placed in Group B in the first round of the tournament, kicked off their quest for glory with a last-ball defeat to the Warriors. They suffered a big 9-wicket defeat at the hands of IPL counterparts Kolkata Knight Riders in their second group match, leaving them with two must-win matches in order to qualify for the semi-finals. They registered their first win in the competition, in emphatic manner, by beating Somerset by 51 runs, thanks to Chris Gayle's 46-ball 86. The win also consolidated their poor net run-rate. In their last group match, they faced the champions from Australia, the Southern Redbacks. Batting first, the Redbacks rode on a century by Daniel Harris (108* from 61 balls) to set RCB a target of 215. The Royal Challengers came out with a spirited batting performance with Tillakaratne Dilshan and Virat Kohli scoring half-centuries. However, the Redbacks hampered the run-chase by picking up wickets at regular stages towards the end of the innings. With six runs required off the last ball to win the match, RCB found an unlikely-hero in Arun Karthik, who struck Daniel Christian for a six over deep mid-wicket, to take RCB through to the semi-finals. The Challengers, despite being level on points with Kolkata Knight Riders and Warriors, qualified for the semis on basis of having a better net run-rate than the two teams.
The Royal Challengers played the New South Wales Blues in the semi-finals of the tournament. Winning the toss, Daniel Vettori put the Blues in to bat and the decision seemed to backfire as the Blues amassed 203/2 in 20 overs, mainly due to the efforts of David Warner who struck an unbeaten 123 off just 68 balls. Despite losing Dilshan early in the chase, RCB got off to a rollicking start with Chris Gayle smashing 92 runs from only 41 deliveries. He was ably supported by Kohli, who struck an unbeaten 84 from 49 balls to give RCB a comfortable 6-wicket victory with 9 balls to spare. They took on an injury-hit Mumbai Indians in the final at Chennai. Mumbai winning the toss, chose to bat and put up a modest total of 139 in 20 overs. After getting off to a blistering start with the bat, the Challengers lost wickets at regular intervals before getting bundled out for 108 in 19.2 overs, falling short of the target by 31 runs. Mumbai skipper Harbhajan Singh was awarded the Man of the Match for picking 3/20 in his four overs.
In the pre-season transfer window Royal Challengers Bangalore transferred Australian all rounder Andrew McDonald from Delhi Daredevils. RCB paid US$100,000 as transferred fees. Royal Challengers Bangalore also retained Chris Gayle for the next two IPL seasons.
Before the auction RCB had got Andrew McDonald transferred from Delhi Daredevils. They had also bought out the contracts of Johan Van der Wath, Jonathan Vandiar and Nuwan Pradeep. In the auction RCB bought only Vinay Kumar for $1 million and Muttiah Muralitharan for $220,200.
Royal Challengers Bangalore began the 2012 IPL without the services of talisman Chris Gayle who had arrived in India, carrying a groin injury he had sustained in the preceding Bangladesh Premier League. Sreenath Aravind, RCB's most
successful bowler in 2011 too was laid low by injury and Harshal Patel emerged as the preferred third seamer in the side
ahead of Abhimanyu Mithun. AB de Villiers and Muttiah Muralitharan gave the team a winning start against Delhi but 3 consecutive losses followed. One
of them saw the team concede a 200+ total off the last ball in Chennai while Ajinkya Rahane's ton at Bangalore included 6
fours in a single over from Aravind. The team rallied back, Chris Gayle finding his touch to hit 5 consecutive sixes off
Rahul Sharma and Saurabh Tiwary hitting a six off the last ball to win the team a tight chase against Pune. Gayle shone
again at Mohali in a comprehensive win while de Villiers, Tillakaratne Dilshan and KP Appanna engineered another win in
Jaipur. A washed out match at Bangalore against Chennai denied the team a chance at gaining 2 points outright, the teams sharing
points 1-1 each. Two subsequent losses put RCB in competition with Rajasthan Royals, Chennai Super Kings and Kings XI
Punjab for the last play-offs slot. Daniel Vettori benched himself so the team could play Muttiah Muralitharan as one of the four foreigners allowed in the
playing XI, Virat Kohli taking up captaincy duties. The team signed Prasanth Parameswaran who played for Kochi Tuskers
Kerala in the 2011 IPL as a replacement for the injured Sreenath Aravind. A spectacular chase against Deccan Chargers at Bangalore and two routs in Mumbai and Pune put the team back on track for a
place in the play-offs. RCB went down to Mumbai in a hard-fought match at Bangalore but bounced back in Delhi as Chris
Gayle became the first man to hit 3 centuries in the IPL, hitting 128* at Delhi.
Other results in the tournament now placed RCB in direct competition with Chennai for the final play-offs slot. The teams
were tied on points with Chennai ahead on Net Run Rate but RCB had a game in hand while Chennai had played out their
games. A batting failure at Hyderabad in RCB's final game of the season led to the end of the team's 2012 campaign, making
it the first time since 2009 that they failed to qualify for both the play-offs and the Champions League. Chris Gayle was the highest run scorer of the tournament for the second year in a row, scoring 733 runs at 61.08 with 7
fifties, 1 hundred and a strike rate of 160.74. Vinay Kumar finished as the 5th highest wicket taker of the tournament
with his 19 wickets from 17 matches.
Before the auction RCB released Mohammad Kaif, Charl Langeveldt, Dirk Nannes, Luke Pomersbach and Rilee Rossouw. At the auction RCB bought Christopher Barnwell, Daniel Christian, Moisés Henriques, Ravi Rampaul, Pankaj Singh, R. P. Singh and Jaydev Unadkat.
RCB kicked off their campaign by winning their first 6 home games starting with a 2 run win over Mumbai Indians where Chris Gayle scored 92* off 58 balls and Vinay Kumar picking up 3 wickets.
But they suffered a super-over defeat to newly formed Sunrisers Hyderabad but then they beat the same opponents convincingly by 6 wickets where Virat Kohli smashed a brilliant 93*. They also beat Kolkata Knight Riders by 8 wickets. Gayle and Kohli were in tremendous form with the bat while Vinay Kumar was the hero with ball. RCB suffered a shock in the next match against Chennai Super Kings where R.P. Singh conceded a no-ball of the last ball of the match which was a catch. However, the team rallied back to win their next 3 games. One of the matches against Pune Warriors India saw Chris Gayle smash 175 off just 66 balls which was the highest individual score in T20 cricket and RCB put up 263-5 which was the highest total in T20 cricket. Pune never fought back in the chase and eventually lost the match by 130 runs. People often nickname Bangalore as "Ban-gayle-ore". However, the team began to lose matches away from home. One of the matches against Punjab saw David Miller score 101 off just 38 balls to guide Punjab to an unlikely victory. RCB only managed to beat Pune Warriors India and Delhi Daredevils away from home. They were now in direct competition with Sunrisers Hyderabad with 16 points from 13 matches who were also with 16 points from 13 matches. A batting failure against Kolkata and a poor fielding and bowling performance against Punjab at Bangalore left RCB in a do or die situation in their last league match against Chennai Super Kings at Bangalore. Fortunately, RCB registered a stunning win in their last match which was affected by rain. Now, RCB could only qualify for playoffs if Kolkata would beat Hyderabad. Unfortunately, Sunrisers Hyderabad won the match convincingly by 5 wickets which ended RCB's 2013 campaign. Chris Gayle was the leading run scorer for the team, scoring 708 runs and Vinay Kumar was the leading wicket taker by taking 22 wickets.
Virat Kohli was named the captain of RCB team. Before the auction, AB de Villiers, Chris Gayle and Virat Kohli were retained from the previous seasons. The players bought in the 2014 auctions were Albie Morkel, Mitchell Starc, Ravi Rampaul, Parthiv Patel, Ashok Dinda, Muttiah Muralitharan, Nic Maddinson, Harshal Patel, Varun Aaron, Vijay Zol and Yuvraj Singh who was the most expensive player fetching a massive 14 crore. They ended up 7th in the points table and didn't qualify for the playoffs.
RCB retained Virat Kohli, AB de Villiers, Chris Gayle, Mitchell Starc, Ashok Dinda, Varun Aaron, Harshal Patel, Yuzvendra Chahal, Nic Maddinson, Rilee Rossouw, Abu Nechim, Yogesh Takawale, Vijay Zol and Sandeep Warrier for the 2015 Indian Premier League. They also bought Manvinder Bisla and Iqbal Abdulla from Kolkata Knight Riders and Mandeep Singh from Kings XI Punjab during the Transfer Window. They bought Darren Sammy, David Wiese, Adam Milne, Sean Abbott, Subramaniam Badrinath, Jalaj Saxena, Sarfaraz Khan and Dinesh Karthik for ₹10.5 crore (US$1.5 million) from the 2015 Player Auctions.
Royal Challengers Bangalore started their season with an unconvincing win against KKR at Kolkata, supported by a knock of 96 by Chris Gayle. But they lost their next three matches in Bangalore to SRH, MI, and CSK. Two great bowling performances ensured RCB secured dominant wins against RR and DD, winning by 9 wickets and 10 wickets respectively. Their next match against RR got washed out after a strong batting performance from RCB. They lost a close match to CSK, but recovered by crushing Kings XI Punjab by 138 runs, supported by a century by Chris Gayle, and a four wicket haul for Sreenath Aravind and Mitchell Starc. Royal Challengers' good form continued when AB de Villiers and Virat Kohli smashed the highest T20 partnership ever (later beaten by the same pair in IPL 2016) against Mumbai Indians, to secure a good win. Later, RCB lost to Kings XI Punjab in a rain affected match, putting their playoff qualification in doubt. They faced SRH in the next match, again affected by rain. Amidst a lot of drama, and stunning performances from Virat Kohli and Gayle, RCB won an unlikely match in Hyderabad. Now, the only way they could be out of the playoffs became very unlikely, yet possible. RCB lost their chance to be placed second in the points table after rain washed out their final match against DD.
They ended the league stage at the third position, with 7 wins from 14 matches. On 20 May, they faced the Rajasthan Royals in the Eliminator and earned a spot in Qualifier 2. However, they lost to the Chennai Super Kings in the Qualifier 2, and ended the season finishing third. AB de Villiers, Virat Kohli, and Chris Gayle, ended by being the 4th, 5th, and 6th highest run scorers of the season respectively, while Yuzvendra Chahal was RCB's highest wicket taker, being the 3rd highest in the season.

In light of financial scandals involving owner/chairman Vijay Mallya, Amrit Thomas became the chairman of the Royal Challengers. RCB changed the team logo and also became the first team in IPL to adopt different jerseys for home and away matches. Virat Kohli, AB de Villiers, Chris Gayle, Mitchell Starc, David Wiese, Adam Milne, Varun Aaron, Mandeep Singh, Harshal Patel, Kedar Jadhav, Sarfaraz Khan, Sreenath Aravind, Yuzvendra Chahal, and Abu Nechim were retained by RCB for the 2016 Indian Premier League. From player auctions, they bought Shane Watson for ₹9.5 crore (US$1.3 million), Kane Richardson and Stuart Binny for ₹2 crore each, and Travis Head and Samuel Badree for ₹50 lakhs each. Other players that joined the team were Sachin Baby, Iqbal Abdulla, Praveen Dubey, Akshay Karnewar, Vikramjeet Malik and Vikas Tokas. KL Rahul and Parvez Rasool also joined RCB for the IPL 2016 edition.
Royal Challengers Bangalore started their season with a blitz from AB de Villiers and Virat Kohli against SRH at Bangalore, to comfortably win their first match. A bludgeoning century from Quinton de Kock meant RCB lost their second match of the season. Their form deteriorated in the coming matches, winning only one match of the next five. Although, Virat Kohli and AB de Villier's brilliant form, along with the emergence of KL Rahul as an important member of RCB's batting, were positive points. Royal Challengers needed to win at least 6 of their next seven matches to have a chance at qualifying for the playoffs. They won matches against KXIP and Rising Pune Supergiant, the new entrant in the tournament. But a loss against Mumbai Indians meant they needed 4 wins in 4 matches to qualify. Since then, Virat Kohli found himself in sublime form, with captaincy and the bat. RCB most notably defeated the Gujarat Lions by 144 runs, the highest margin in IPL history, during this 4 match winning streak. Through other match results, RCB ended at an unlikely second position at the end of the league stage. Virat Kohli dominated the run-scoring list, while Shane Watson and Yuzvendra Chahal collectively topped the wicket taking list at the end of the league stage. They faced the Gujarat Lions in the Qualifier 1 at their home ground, the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium. They won by 4 wickets to make it to their third final in nine seasons. They played the final against SRH, again in Bangalore. RCB lost a hard-fought match by 8 runs, to end as runners up in this ninth season of the IPL. This is the third instance of RCB losing the finals in the IPL.
Yuzvendra Chahal and Shane Watson ended second and third respectively on the list for most wickets.
At the launch event of his biography, 'Driven: The Virat Kohli Story' in New Delhi, in October 2016, Kohli announced that RCB would be his permanent IPL franchise that he would play for.Virat Kohli, AB de Villiers, Chris Gayle, Mitchell Starc, Adam Milne, Mandeep Singh, Harshal Patel, Kedar Jadhav, Sarfaraz Khan, Sreenath Aravind, Yuzvendra Chahal, Shane Watson, Stuart Binny, Travis Head, Samuel Badree, Sachin Baby, Iqbal Abdulla, Praveen Dubey and KL Rahul were retained by RCB for the 2017 Indian Premier League. From player auctions, they bought Tymal Mills for ₹12 crore (US$1.7 million), Aniket Chaudhary for ₹2 crores, Pawan Negi for ₹1 crore and Billy Stanlake for ₹30 lakhs. Mitchell Starc dropped out of the season to prepare for the Champions Trophy which led to the management to replace him with Tymal Mills. The team was the worst hit with injuries as their captain Virat Kohli and AB de Villiers did not play for the initial matches which led to the making of Shane Watson as the interim captain. Even their star players KL Rahul and Sarfaraz Khan were ruled out of the season due to their prolonged injuries.
They lost their first match of the season as they were bundled out by 172 and lost by 35 runs to Sunrisers Hyderabad in Hyderabad. But they won their second match against Delhi Daredevils in their home ground. However, they lost the next three matches in a row against Kings XI Punjab, Mumbai Indians and Rising Pune Supergiant respectively. Though AB de Villiers made a quick fire 89 off 46 balls, RCB lost the match against Kings XI Punjab as the other players made 57 dot balls. The match against Mumbai Indians saw Virat Kohli's comeback with a quick 62 off 47 balls and Samuel Badree becoming the 14th player in the IPL history to claim a hat-trick, but they lost the match as Pollard made 70 off 47 balls to win the match for them. They lost the match against Rising Pune Supergiant by a massive 27 runs. But in their next game against Gujarat Lions, they won by 20 runs and coincidentally Chris Gayle became the first player to score 10,000 runs in T20s. However, in their next game against Kolkata Knight Riders, on the day when RCB made 263/5 against Pune Warriors India which was the highest IPL score in 2013, they were bundled out for 49 all out which is the lowest IPL score and also where no batsman could score 10 runs. They kept losing matches consecutively as they could not make high scores and their big guns- Chris Gayle, Virat Kohli and AB de Villiers failing repeatedly. The pitch in M. Chinnaswamy Stadium was changed from a usual batting to the bowling pitch which made the batsman struggle for runs. They ended up at the bottom of the table and they changed their squad for each match which was the reason for its downfall. However, they finished their miserable season on a high note after winning against Delhi Daredevils by 10 runs in Delhi. They made low scores like 49 all out against Kolkata Knight Riders, 96/9 against Rising Pune Supergiant and 119 all out against Kings XI Punjab.


=== 2019 IPL ===

Ahead of the 2019 IPL, Royal Challengers Bangalore spent ₹16.4 crores (2.4 million US$) to buy nine players- Shivam Dube, Shimron Hetmyer, Akshdeep Nath, Prayas Barman, Himmat Singh, Gurkeerat Singh Mann, Heinrich Klaasen, Devdutt Padikkal and Milind Kumar. In-between the tournament, one of the best fast bowlers in the game Dale Steyn joined the squad and was crucial for the team's victories. Unfortunately for RCB he was ruled out of the tournament after playing 3 matches due to a shoulder injury. Despite their hard efforts, RCB failed yet again to deliver in the group-stages. Out of the 14 games played, they won five, lost eight and tied one. Consequently, they ended at the bottom of the points table for the second time (previously in 2017).
A lot of eyes were laid on the Captain of the team Virat Kohli because he was to lead his country in the upcoming Cricket World Cup, this put a lot of pressure on the captain. In spite of this pressure, Kohli scored a total of 464 runs which included one match winning century and two half centuries making him the second player to reach the milestone of 5000 runs in the IPL after Chennai Super Kings' All-rounder Suresh Raina.
Even with RCB's disappointing performance in the season, most of their matches were close encounters and their fans were thoroughly entertained. At the end of the 12th season of the IPL franchise, RCB still remains among the three original teams of the franchise (the other two include Kings XI Punjab and Delhi Capitals) who haven't won the IPL trophy yet.


=== 2020 IPL ===
Before the start of 2020 IPL, RCB has released their players: Akshdeep Nath, Colin de Grandhomme, Dale Steyn, Heinrich Klassen, Himmat Singh, Kulwant Khejroliya, Marcus Stoinis, Milind Kumar, Nathan Coulter-Nile, Prayas Ray Barman, Shimron Hetmyer, Tim Southee.  During the IPL auction, they added Aaron Finch (4.4 crore), Chris Morris (10 crore), Joshua Philippe (20 lakh), Kane Richardson (4 crore), Pavan Deshpande (20 lakh), Dale Steyn (2 crore), Shahbaz Ahamad (20 lakh), Isuru Udana (50 lakh). 


== Team identity ==


=== Livery ===

Vijay Mallya wanted to associate one of his top-selling liquor brands, either McDowell's No.1 or Royal Challenge with the team. The latter was chosen, hence the name.


=== Logo ===
The logo initially consisted the RC emblem in yellow on a circular red base with the black text "Royal Challengers Bangalore" in standard format surrounding circular logo. The RC crown emblem with the roaring lion placed on the top of the logo was derived from the original Royal Challenge logo. No significant changes took place in the design of the logo except for the replacement of colour yellow with gold from 2009. This logo also had a dotted white circle around the RC emblem. The team also uses an alternate logo for the Game for Green matches where the green plants surround the logo and the text Game for Green is placed below the logo. The logo was redesigned in 2016 with the inclusion of black as a secondary color. The lion emblem in the crest was enlarged and the shield was omitted in the new design. In 2020, a new logo was unveiled featuring a bigger lion and the crown returning from the previous logo. The RC emblem was omitted for this crest.


=== Jersey ===
The jersey colors of the team in 2008 were red and golden yellow, the same as the unofficial Kannada flag, with player names printed in white and numbers printed in black in the rear. Yellow was eliminated in future seasons and was replaced with gold. Starting from 2010, blue was introduced on the apparel as a tertiary colour. The jersey design saw tweaks every season, major being the one for 2014 where blue dominated over gold. From 2014, the player names and numbers were printed in gold. As of 2015, more yellowish shade of gold is being used on the jerseys. The blue was completely eliminated in 2016 and was replaced by black as the third colour in the two versions of the jersey; one for home matches and the other for away ones. From 2020, black was replaced with a shade between dark blue and black. Reebok manufactured kits for the team from 2008 to 2014 and Adidas supplied the kits in 2015. Zeven manufactures the kits for the team from 2016.


=== Theme song ===
The theme song of the team for the 2008 season was "Jeetenge Hum Shaan Se". The team anthem, "Game for More" was created for the 2009 season. The music was composed by Amit Trivedi and written by Anshu Sharma. A new anthem, "Here We Go The Royal Challengers" was created for the 2013 season and was used till 2015. The anthem "Play Bold" was composed by Salim–Sulaiman, sung by Siddharth Basrur and was released in 2016 during the launch of jerseys for the season. For 2017, the same anthem was recomposed and sung by Anand Bhaskar in 6 languages - English, Kannada, Telugu, Bengali, Marathi and Punjabi.


=== Ambassadors ===
Katrina Kaif was roped in as the brand ambassador for the team in 2008, but later stepped down due to her prior commitments with filmmakers. Deepika Padukone, Ramya, Puneeth Rajkumar, Upendra and Ganesh have been the ambassadors for the team in the initial seasons. Shiva Rajkumar is the brand Ambassador for the season 11.


== Kit manufacturers and sponsors ==
Mallya's home brand Royal Challenge became the primary sponsor of the team from the start of the Indian Premier League in 2008. Since then United Spirits Limited (now a subsidiary of Diageo) used almost all advertisement slots on the apparel for the promotion of their brands. Kingfisher, McDowell's No.1, Whyte and Mackay, White Mischief were prominently advertised on the jerseys in the initial seasons. In 2014, for the first time, Huawei, a non-home brand acquired the main slot on the jersey for two seasons. In 2016 and 2017, Hero Cycles and Gionee took over at the head jersey sponsors respectively.
In 2018 Eros Now have officially announced to sponsor the jersey of the team.
In 2015, the team had United Spirits, Huawei and Kingfisher as the principal sponsors. Midea, Tata Motors (labeled Tata Bolt), Britannia Industries, TGS Constructions, 7 UP, Ed Hardy, Allen Career Institute, Daily News & Analysis, Mallya Hospital, Fever 104 FM, Redbus.in, Uber and Adidas were the associate sponsors.
In 2016, RCB had its own brand Kingfisher by United Breweries Group along with Hero Cycles as the principle sponsors. Lloyd Air Conditioners, LYF, Tata Zest, Britannia, Himalaya Men, Acer, Ola were the associate sponsors. Zeven, a multi sports apparel brand by Mahesh Bhupathi and Shikhar Dhawan replaced Adidas as the kit sponsors. 7 UP, Manipal Hospitals, Fever 104 FM and DNA Network were the official partners for 2016.
As of 2017, while Zeven continued to manufacture kits for the team, Gionee became the principal sponsor.  Lloyd Air Conditioners, Jio, Karnataka Tourism Jungle Lodges & Resorts, Himalaya Men, Duroflex Mattresses and 7 UP were the associate sponsors. Other official partners included Gatorade, Wrogn, Boost, Tissot, Radio Mirchi, Acer, DNA Network, AbhiBus.com, Nissin and Galileo-iNurture.

The team prominently displayed the liquor brands owned by Vijay Mallya through UB Group such as Royal Challenge, McDowells No.1, White Mischief, Kingfisher etc. until 2013. In the 2014 season, no liquor brands were advertised on the apparel, however Royal Challenge Sports Gear and Kingfisher Packaged Drinking Water are displayed on the jerseys.


== Rivalries ==

Royal Challengers Bangalore have active rivalries with Chennai Super Kings and Kolkata Knight Riders. The rivalry with Knight Riders goes back to 2008 as it was also the inaugural match of the first IPL.
The rivalry with Chennai Super Kings stems from the Kaveri River water dispute between the states of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The rivalry is also called "Kaveri derby" and "South Indian derby". The Super Kings beat the Royal Challengers in the final of the 2011 IPL, the only meeting between the two teams at an IPL final.


== Support and fan following ==
The Royal Challengers have a huge and passionate fan base all over India and especially in the city of Bangalore. The fans, known to be loyal and vocal in their support, often turn up in large numbers for RCB's home matches turning the stadium into what is called a "sea of red". They are well known for their chants of "R-C-B, R-C-B" and the co-ordinated Mexican wave at the Chinnaswamy. The stadium organisers also provide the home team fans with cheer kits, RCB flags and noisemakers among other items. Royal Challengers Bangalore have formed a fan-following group named as Bold Army.
During the 2014 IPL, the Royal Challengers became the first team to provide free Wi-Fi connectivity to fans at their home ground. 50 access points were set up using fibre optic cables to provide the connectivity to fans on match days at the Chinnaswamy.


== Seasons ==


== Squad ==
* Players with international caps are listed in bold.
 *  denotes a player who is currently unavailable for selection.
 *  denotes a player who is unavailable for rest of the season.


== Administration and support staff ==
Owner: United Spirits Limited (Diageo)
Chairman:  Sanjeev Churiwala
Director of cricket operations:  Mike Hesson
Head coach:  Simon Katich
Bowling coach:  Adam Griffith
Batting and spin bowling coach:  Sridharan Sriram
Team manager:  Major Soumyadeep Pyne
Head of scouting:  Malolan Rangarajan
Strength and conditioning coach:  Shanker Basu
Physiotherapist:  Evan Speechly
Sports massage therapist:  Navnita Gautam


== Head coaches ==


== Captains ==


== Result summary ==


=== By Opposition ===
Last Updated on 3 April 2019 


=== By Venue ===


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official websiteThe Rajasthan Royals (often abbreviated as RR) are a franchise cricket team based in Jaipur, Rajasthan, that plays in the Indian Premier League (IPL). Founded in 2008 as one of the initial eight IPL franchises, the team is based at the Sawai Mansingh Stadium in Jaipur.
The Rajasthan Royals are sometimes considered as the "moneyball" team of the IPL. The Royals are known to unearth obscure, high potential talent, as well as their involvement in a number of controversies and scandals.The team won the inaugural edition of the IPL under the captaincy of Shane Warne, despite being written off as a title contender by the media and fans. The Royals were also the runners-up of the 2013 Champions League Twenty20 under Rahul Dravid's captaincy.On 14 July 2015, the verdict reached by a panel appointed by the Supreme Court of India suspended Rajasthan Royals and Chennai Super Kings for two years over a 2013 betting scandal, meaning they could not participate in both the 2016 and 2017 IPL tournaments. They returned to the competition for the 2018 season.
The team's record run-scorer is Ajinkya Rahane with 2705 runs, while the leading wicket-taker is Shane Watson, with 67.


== Franchise history ==
The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) announced the establishment of the Indian Premier League (IPL) on September 2007, a Twenty20 competition to be started in 2008. The Rajasthan Royals were one of the original eight teams in the inaugural season of the IPL in 2008. The team was sold to the Emerging Media for $67 million, making it the least expensive team in the league.The franchise is currently owned and chaired by Manoj Badale. Other investors include Lachlan Murdoch, Aditya S Chellaram, and Suresh Chellaram. The Group acquired the franchise for $67 million. There have been past controversies regarding the ownership of the franchise, leading to their expulsion from the league in 2010. Incidentally, this was the least expensive franchise in the Indian Premier League and probably the least fancied team in the league at the beginning of the tournament. It made a pre-tax profit of $7.5 million in 2009.


=== Expulsion from the IPL and return ===
In 2010, the BCCI decided to expel Kings XI Punjab and Rajasthan Royals from the IPL. The expulsion baffled captain Shane Warne who stated that he suspected that there might be some foul play and that the BCCI might possess some ulterior motives. The Rajasthan Royals filed an appeal against the decision and the two parties went to the Mumbai High Court to decide. The Mumbai High Court adjourned that case until 29 October 2010, but it was revised to 15 November because they didn't want it to coincide with Diwali celebrations from 1 to 14 November.Later, it was announced by the Royals that they told the Bombay High Court that they would be negotiating with an arbitrator to see if they could reconcile with the IPL. The arbitrator announced that while the investigation was ongoing, the Royals would remain a part of the IPL for six weeks and the BCCI would not be allowed to change rules which might go against the Royals. The six-week period included the player auction in which Rajasthan Royals participated. After this, the Bombay High Court rejected the appeals of the BCCI against keeping the Rajasthan Royals in the IPL for six weeks while the case was sorted out. It was estimated that because of the losses in court cases and damage in reputation, the BCCI decided not to pursue further legal action against the Rajasthan Royals or Kings XI Punjab - the teams were allowed to remain in the IPL.


=== Ban in 2015 ===
In 2015, the team was banned for two years following the Lodha Committee inquiry.Rajasthan Royals became the source of controversy when inappropriate and fictitious bids were made, violating BCCI norms. Ranjit Barthakur and Fraser Castellino were the only two shareholders of the team, which was completely unknown to the BCCI at the time. An out-of-court settlement between the two ensued. In 2015, Rajasthan Royals were banned for two years by the BCCI, with its owner Raj Kundra banned for life.


== Team history ==


=== 2008 IPL season ===
Before the start of the inaugural IPL season, many considered the Royals as possibly the weakest team in the IPL, giving them little chance of competing well in the tournament. Evidence of the latter opinion seemed to be confirmed when the team lost its first match against the Delhi Daredevils in a 9 wicket loss. The fears were confirmed that the team was likely to struggle.In their first home game ever at Sawai Mansingh Stadium in Jaipur, they played against the Kings XI Punjab and won by 6 wickets as Shane Watson was declared the man of the match for his unbeaten 76 off 49 balls in what was a successful run chase. That was followed by a crucial 3 wicket win against the season favourite, Deccan Chargers, in Hyderabad. The victory proved to be a huge morale booster. Yusuf Pathan won the first man of the match award for his bowling figures of 2/20 in 4 overs and a 28-ball 61.
The next game against the Kolkata Knight Riders was won by 45 runs where Swapnil Asnodkar received his first man of the match award for a fine knock of 60 off just 34 balls.
They further managed to defeat the Chennai Super Kings in Jaipur but lost to Mumbai Indians in Navi Mumbai. The Royals continued to win the next five games in a row. They were the first team to book a place in the semi-finals with their 65 run win over the Royal Challengers Bangalore and were pitted against Chennai Super Kings for the finals. The Royals won by 3 wickets in the final played on 1 June 2008.
The all-rounder Shane Watson won the man of the tournament award for scoring as many as 472 runs and picking 17 wickets. His captaincy and coaching was praised and well received by everyone, including opposition teams.Each player and representative on the team was awarded a medal. The team was presented with the DLF Indian Premier League trophy along with a cheque for US$1.2  million prize money. Many of the Royals players also took home individual awards for their performance during the tournament; Yusuf Pathan claimed the Man of the Match award for the final match, Sohail Tanvir finished the tournament in possession of the Purple Cap (the IPL's leading wicket-taker), and Australian all-rounder Shane Watson was declared the Man of the Series.


=== 2009 IPL season ===
The Royals were the defending champions. Sohail Tanvir was ineligible to play for the team due to the ban imposed by the BCCI on Pakistani players playing in the competition. Shane Watson was unavailable for the whole season as Australia toured to UAE for the ODI series against Pakistan. Without these two, the team looked slightly weaker than the previous season and players such as Graeme Smith, Shaun Tait, and Shane Warne had to be relied on.The maiden match was lost against the Royal Challengers Bangalore in a 75-run washout. They remained defeated by Mumbai Indians, Kolkata Knight Riders, Kings XI Punjab, and Chennai Super Kings but they won over Delhi Daredevils and Deccan Chargers. The Royals were at the end of the points table. Mohammed Kaif, Dinesh Salunkhe, Paras Dogra, Anup Revandkar, Shrideep Mangela, Ashraf Makda, and Azhar Malik were dropped from the team and sent home.Rajasthan Royals ended 6th out of the 8 teams in the competition, winning 6 matches out of the 14 they played. The Royals failed to make it to the semi-finals after losing their last two matches against Delhi Daredevils and Kolkata Knight Riders.


=== British Asian Cup ===
On 14 May 2009, it was announced that Rajasthan Royals would meet Middlesex Crusaders in a one-off Twenty20 for the British Asian Cup. It was the first time that an annual charity series was to be played between the Twenty20 champions of the two countries. The match took place on 6 July 2009. The teams  were announced on 3 July 2009 with Rajasthan Royals including Mohammad Kaif and the comeback of Sohail Tanvir.
The match was won by Rajasthan Royals by 46 runs after scoring 162/5 in 20 overs and successfully defending it by 46 runs (Middlesex 116/7). The Man of the Match was Dimitri Mascarenhas.


=== 2010 IPL season ===
The Royals were back in India after their average outing in South Africa. This time they seemed to be a better outfit as they were to play in conditions that should have suited them the most. But they had to suffer an unfortunate start to the competition, with a narrow 4 run defeat to the Mumbai Indians at the Brabourne Stadium in Mumbai. The highlight of this match though, was Yusuf Pathan hitting the fastest ever hundred in IPL history, off only 37 balls. Even some of the Mumbai fans were disappointed not to see Rajasthan win, by the end of it all. They went on to lose to the Delhi Daredevils by 6 wickets in one of their new ‘home’ grounds, Ahmedabad. And were again bruised badly by the Royal Challengers Bangalore, who won by 10 wickets. The team remained inconsistent throughout the whole season, winning their next four matches consecutively. One of the young Turks of the erstwhile ICL, Abhishek Jhunjhunwala impressed against the franchise representing his home state, Kolkata Knight Riders as his 36-ball 45 helped the Royals win by 34 runs.
Followed by which the Western Australian batsman Adam Voges hit 45 runs off 24 balls to help Rajasthan beat Punjab in Mohali by 31 runs. The team seemed to have adapted to the Ahmedabad conditions better with wins against Deccan Chargers by 8 wickets as Yusuf Pathan continued his good form against the team, while they beat Chennai Super Kings by 17 runs courtesy wicket-keeper batsman Naman Ojha's 49-ball 80.
But they lost against Chennai in their return clash as Murali Vijay's hundred took the game away from them as well as were crushed in Delhi by 67 runs. But they managed to escape a Deccan Chargers attack, with a narrow 2 run victory in Nagpur and continued their unbeaten run in Jaipur though, as the out of sorts Kings XI Punjab were duly beaten by 9 wickets with English opener Michael Lumb winning the man of the match award for his 43-ball 83.
Once again, Rajasthan Royals ended the tournament miserably with losses to Mumbai Indians and the Royal Challengers Bangalore at home and the Kolkata Knight Riders in the last round-robin game in Kolkata. Consequently, they failed to make it to the playoffs for the second consecutive season as they finished 7th out of the 8 teams in the competition, winning 6 games out of 14 played.


=== 2011 IPL season ===
The Rajasthan Royals, and the Kings XI Punjab were temporarily ejected from the league due to issues with their unreported ownership changes. The teams were reinstated with involvement from the High Court. Their owners were broken into several legal entities when the BCCI required the incorporation of the companies. Kochi was also at risk of ejection for the same reasons before BCCI cleared their new ownership pattern for the tournament.The team management decided to retain the Australian duo of Shane Warne and Shane Watson for the following three seasons of the IPL, although Warne's future continued to be uncertain. Yet, he decided to make this his final season for the Rajasthan Royals on the insistence of the team owners who felt that he was the ultimate source of inspiration for the team on and off the field.
In the auction, the team's funds were reduced since they were penalised by the BCCI in 2010 and as a result, had to pay a certain amount of bank guarantee as fixed by the High Court. But they possessed an adequate amount of money to buy some of the world's finest T20 players, which they did not exactly.
They managed to buy back Australian fast bowler Shaun Tait for US$300,000 as well as South African bowling all-rounder Johan Botha for US$950,000. The other star players which they picked were New Zealand batsman Ross Taylor for US$1 million as well as ‘The Wall’ Rahul Dravid for half that price. England's World T20 2010 winning skipper Paul Collingwood was also purchased for a mere US$250,000. The other players were mostly from the domestic circuits but were confident individuals following Rajasthan winning the Ranji Trophy that year.
Rajasthan Royals began the IPL 2011 in grand fashion, beating the Kumar Sangakkara-led Deccan Chargers by 8 wickets, with the young Indian pacer Siddharth Trivedi adjudged the man of the match for his spell of 3/15 and the Royals continued their fine record against the Chargers. While Shane Warne defied age with a fine piece of bowling to assist Rajasthan in defeating a weakened Delhi Daredevils side by 6 wickets, with figures of 2/17.
However, their confidence was dented with two back-to-back defeats to the new-look Kolkata Knight Riders in three days. In the clash at Jaipur, they lost by 9 wickets courtesy a 100-run partnership between Gautam Gambhir and Jacques Kallis, Whereas, in Kolkata, Lakshmipathy Balaji picked 3/15 in 4 overs on a minefield pitch in Eden Gardens to help his team pull off an 8 wicket victory.
The match against the Royal Challengers Bangalore in Bangalore was washed out due to rain, which made Rajasthan's task of making it into the last four much tougher. Shaun Marsh was in great nick and his 42-ball 71 resulted in the Royals losing to Kings XI Punjab in Mohali by 48 runs. However, they pulled together a string of a hat-trick of home wins, as Rajasthan chased successfully in all the three matches. The first was against the Kochi Tuskers Kerala, winning by 8 wickets. Followed by Mumbai Indians, the No.1 team then on the points table as they chased down a total of 100 with 7 wickets to spare. And then the Pune Warriors India were undone by Ross Taylors’ 35-ball 47 not out, as Rajasthan won by 6 wickets.
But again it was inconsistency which let the Royals down badly. They were given a proper thumping by the eventual champions Chennai Super Kings in both the matches they played against each other, within five days. The in-form Royal Challengers Bangalore thrashed them by 9 wickets courtesy Chris Gayle while they were bowled out for 97 in their 8-wicket defeat to the Kochi Tuskers Kerala.
Although this time they ended their round-robin matches well with a win against the Mumbai Indians in Mumbai and in the process, giving Shane Warne a fitting farewell, Rajasthan were dismissed from the competition since they ended at the 6th position out of the 10 teams in the tournament, having again won 6 out of their 14 matches played, with one being a no result.


=== 2012 IPL season ===
Rajasthan Royals finished in seventh place among the points table in season 5 of IPL winning only seven matches out of sixteen.


=== 2013 IPL season ===
Rajasthan Royals qualified for the playoff stage by finishing third in the group stage, thus grabbing a spot in Champions League 2013. They won against Sunrisers Hyderabad in the eliminator but lost to Mumbai Indians in the second qualifier, which led to their exit from the tournament. Shane Watson was declared the Man of the tournament.


=== 2013 spot-fixing case ===
 
On 16 May 2013, three Rajasthan Royals players Sreesanth, Ankeet Chavan and Ajit Chandila were arrested from Mumbai by Delhi Police along with eleven bookies on charges of spot-fixing in the tournament. The fixing happened in the matches against Pune Warriors on 5 May, Kings XI Punjab on 9 May and Mumbai Indians on 15 May. Later BCCI suspended the three players.


=== 2014 IPL season ===
Rajasthan Royals retained five players – Sanju Samson, Ajinkya Rahane, Shane Watson, James Faulkner and Stuart Binny – for the seventh season of the IPL. Rajasthan Royals scored 65 runs off the last 17 balls at a strike rate of 382.35 to win the match against RCB. Shane Watson lead the side and Rahul Dravid played the role of a mentor.


=== 2018 IPL season ===
In 2018, the Rajasthan Royals made a comeback to IPL after two years of suspension. Prior to the 2018 IPL auction, the Royals retained Steve Smith for ₹120 million (US$1.7 million) announcing him as captain for 2018 season. Following the ball tampering controversy in March 2018, Smith stepped down as Royals captain with Ajinkya Rahane appointed. Smith was subsequently banned from playing in the 2018 IPL season. Following Steve Smith's ban Heinrich Klaasen was announced as replacement.
On 2 May 2018, in a match against the Delhi Daredevils, Jos Buttler scored the fastest ever 50 for Rajasthan Royals, off just 18 balls. This was also the fifth-fastest in IPL history. However, RR lost the match by four runs after failing to make the revised target of 151 from 12 overs due to rain. Buttler also equaled Virender Sehwag’s record for most consecutive fifties in the IPL, with 5 consecutive fifties.
The Royals managed to secure fourth place in the regular season, with 14 points. However, they crashed out of the playoffs in the eliminator against Kolkata Knight Riders, losing by 25 runs in Eden Gardens.


=== 2019 IPL season ===
Ahead of 2019 IPL Auction, Royals retained 16 players and released 9 players. During the auction, Rajasthan bought 9 players.
Paddy Upton was named the Royals coach ahead of 2019 Indian Premier League. Steve Smith made a comeback to IPL on 25 March 2019 after he was banned by BCCI to participate in the 2018 season due to Australian ball-tampering controversy. Ajinkya Rahane retained his captaincy at the start of the season, however, on 20 April 2019 Steve Smith replaced Ajinkya Rahane as captain of Rajasthan Royals after a string of poor results.


=== 2020 IPL season ===
Ahead of 2020 IPL Auction, Royals retained 11 players and released 11 players. Royals have traded Ajinkya Rahane, Krishnappa Gowtham, Dhawal Kulkarni to Delhi Capitals, Kings XI Punjab and Mumbai Indians respectively. Royals bought Mayank Markande, Rahul Tewatia and Ankit Rajpoot via trade from Delhi Capitals and Kings XI Punjab.Andrew McDonald was named the Royals head coach of 2020 Indian Premier League replacing Paddy Upton. Steve Smith was named to continue as captain of Royals.


== Team identity ==


=== Team anthem ===
The team anthem used to be 'Halla Bol'. In the first IPL season, the song was sung by Ila Arun. In the second season, it was sung by Sunidhi Chauhan. Their current anthem, released in 2018, is 'Phir Halla Bol'.


=== Mascot ===
The team's mascot is a lion named Moochu Singh.


== Players ==

Traditionally, the Rajasthan Royals usually purchase cricketers who are relatively unknown or uncapped, that is, not played for their nation, at cut-throat prices. The Royals are famous for their frugal spending in the IPL auctions, even during the mega-auctions held once in 3 years. They have even bought players who had previously never played first-class cricket such as Dinesh Salunkhe and Pravin Tambe. The team has also purchased leading cricketers at various times in their history like Shane Warne, Graeme Smith, Rahul Dravid, Shanthakumaran Sreesanth, Munaf Patel, Mohammad Kaif, Shaun Tait, Ross Taylor, Justin Langer, Damien Martyn, and Brad Hogg to name a few.
Many of the cricketers who have played for the Royals, having been bought by them as relatively unknown players, have ended up as leading international cricketers partly due to their strong performances in the IPL and backing from the Royals management. In the initial seasons, such players included Taruwar Kohli, who was acquired by the franchise in 2008 under the Under-19 player quota and Yusuf Pathan, the elder brother of the Indian all-rounder Irfan Pathan and a relative unknown in cricketing circles unlike his more-celebrated younger brother. Yusuf's brilliant performances in the initial seasons of the IPL earned him a place in the Indian cricket team and he was a member of the Indian squad which won the 2011 Cricket World Cup. Even Australian Shane Watson, who has played for the Royals ever since its inception, became a permanent, consistent and leading member of the Australian cricket team soon after his brilliant first season with the Royals in 2008. In the later seasons, these players have included Indian cricketers such as Ajinkya Rahane, wicket keeper-batsman Sanju Samson, leg-spinner Tambe, whose performances for the Royals earned him a Ranji Trophy debut for Mumbai at the age of 42, Stuart Binny and Dhawal Kulkarni, as well as international cricketers like James Faulkner, Steve Smith and Tim Southee. Even off-spinner Ajit Chandila, who played only 2 first-class matches and was also convicted in the spot-fixing scandal, was one of the top bowlers for the Royals during the 2012 and 2013 seasons.


== Home ground ==

The home venue of the Royals is the Sawai Mansingh Stadium in Jaipur. The stadium was built during the reign of Maharaja Sawai Man Singh II. It is situated at one corner of the Rambagh Circle. The stadium seats 30,000 and is one of the best in India, after the 2006 renovation. The Sardar Patel Stadium in Ahmedabad hosted the Rajasthan Royals home matches. It was built in 2014.Sawai Mansingh Stadium in Jaipur, is set to host the Royals home games in the 2018 IPL season after Rajasthan Royals were suspended for two years in 2015 and after the stadium was banned to host matches for four years.


== Current squad ==
Players with international caps are listed in bold.
 *  denotes a player who is currently unavailable for selection.
 *  denotes a player who is unavailable for rest of the season.


== Administration and support staff ==
Owners -  Amisha Hathiramani,  Manoj Badale,  Lachlan Murdoch,  Shane Warne
Brand ambassador -  Shane Warne
Team manager - 
Director of cricket -  Zubin Bharucha
Head coach -  Andrew McDonald
Batting coach -  Amol Muzumdar
Spin bowling coach -  Sairaj Bahutule
Spin consultant and operations executive -  Ish Sodhi
Fast bowling coach -  Rob Cassell
Fast bowling development coach -  Steffan Jones
Fielding coach -  Dishant Yagnik
Youth cricket advisor -  Lisa Sthalekar
Physio -  John Gloster
Assistant Physiotherapist -  Anuja Dalvi Pandit
Fitness trainer -  Paddy Upton
Analyst -  Panish Shetty
Team doctor -  Rob Young


== Seasons ==


== Kit manufacturers and sponsors ==


== Statistics ==


== See also ==
List of Rajasthan Royals records


== References ==


== External links ==
Official Rajasthan Royals Site
IPL team Rajasthan Royals web page on official IPL T20 website – IPLT20.com
Rajasthan Royals on TwitterThe Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) are a franchise cricket team representing the city of Kolkata in the Indian Premier League. The franchise is owned by Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, actress Juhi Chawla and her spouse Jay Mehta. The home of the Knight Riders is the iconic Eden Gardens stadium.The franchise, which has gained immense popularity due to its association with celebrity owners, qualified for the IPL playoffs for the first time in 2011. They became the IPL champions in 2012, by defeating Chennai Super Kings in the final. They repeated the feat in 2014, defeating Kings XI Punjab. The Knight Riders hold the record for the longest winning streak by any Indian team in T20s (14).The leading run-scorer of the side is Gautam Gambhir, while the leading wicket-taker is Sunil Narine. The official theme of the team is Korbo, Lorbo, Jeetbo Re (we will perform, fight and win!) and the official colours are purple and gold. The brand value of the Knight Riders was estimated at $104 million in 2018, second highest among IPL franchises. In 2019, their value was estimated at ₹629 crore (US$88 million).


== Franchise history ==

In 2007, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) created the cricket tournament Indian Premier League based on the Twenty20 form of the game. Eight teams would participate in the inaugural tournament held in April – June of the same year. The teams representing the eight different cities of India were put up on auction in Mumbai on 20 February. The team representing Kolkata was eventually bought by Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's company Red Chillies Entertainment in partnership with actress Juhi Chawla and her husband Jay Mehta for a price of $75.09 million, equal to approximately ₹2.98 billion at that time. Sourav Ganguly, former captain of the Indian national team, a native of West Bengal and the current President of BCCI (Board Cricket Control of India) was named the Icon player for the team. The name of the team is a reference to the popular 1980s American television series Knight Rider.In June 2015, they bought a stake in the Caribbean Premier League cricket team Trinidad and Tobago Red Steel and later in 2016, renamed it Trinbago Knight Riders.


== Livery ==
Initially, when Kolkata Knight Riders were first introduced in 2008, the logo of the team consisted of a blazing golden Viking helmet against a black background with the name of the team written in gold next to it. However, the black background was changed to purple in the third season. It was in 2012 that the current logo, which has a blazing purple Corinthian helmet trimmed with gold, with Kolkata Knight Riders written within a shield was introduced.The tagline of the team was "All the King's Men" during the first four seasons. However, in the fifth it was replaced by "New Dawn, New Knights". The team's official colours were black and gold during the first two seasons. At the time, Khan said that "golden symbolizes spirit of life and black presents the Goddess Kali." It was later changed to purple and gold during the third season and was kept so. The jersey was created by Bollywood fashion designer Manish Malhotra.The main theme of the team Korbo, Lorbo, Jeetbo Re (we will act, fight and win!) was scored by Vishal-Shekhar duo. A Knight Riders album featuring several singers and music composers including Usha Uthup and Bappi Lahiri was also created.


== Rivalries ==
The Knight Riders have historically been a successful franchise in the IPL. This success has led to them having many rivalries among other teams.


=== Mumbai Indians ===
Both teams play in major markets as the Indians play in Mumbai and the Knight Riders play in Kolkata. The Mumbai Indians is the most successful IPL franchise with four championships but until Mumbai's third championship, both teams were tied with two championships. In the first two seasons of the IPL, Mumbai swept Kolkata in all four games. It was not until the 2010 IPL Season that Kolkata won against Mumbai. Both sides have been captained by Indian cricket legends at one point (Mumbai was captained by Sachin Tendulkar and Kolkata was captained by Sourav Ganguly). This rivalry has often played out in Mumbai's favor as they have won 19 games compared to Kolkata's 6 wins but has been known league wide as an exciting match-up. Both have played each other twice in the playoffs.In 2011, both teams played against each other in the Eliminator round as both franchises made their first playoff appearances. This marked the first time the two teams met in the playoffs. Mumbai won the match by four wickets and advanced to the next round, ultimately losing to the Royal Challengers Bangalore.
In 2012, both teams were chasing a playoff spot in the tournament. The game started out terribly for KKR as their batting side couldn't score runs. KKR picked up the pace and ended the inning with 140/7. Mumbai was expected to win at that point and started to attack quickly and started 60/2 with more than 10 overs left to play. Mumbai quickly collapsed and finished their innings with 108 runs and all out. Sunil Narine was named Man of the Match with 4 wickets and KKR eliminated MI from the playoffs. KKR won its first championship that season. Knight Riders owner Shah Rukh Khan was handed a 5-year ban at Wankhede Stadium, home of the Mumbai Indians. He was accused of walking on the field post game and abusing the security guards. In 2015, the ban was lifted.Mumbai and Kolkata both faced off in the opening match of the 2015 season. Mumbai was up to bat in the first innings as they scored a promising 168/3. This charge was led by captain, Rohit Sharma with his 98 runs. Kolkata captain, Gautam Gambhir had 57 runs and led his side to victory. Suryakumar Yadav's 46 runs were crucial to KKR's chase.
In 2017, Mumbai earned its 100th T20 win against KKR. Later that season, both sides met in the playoffs in the Qualifier 2 round. KKR had a poor batting performance as they posted 107 runs and all out. Mumbai was able to capitalize and won the match. Mumbai went onto the finals to beat Rising Pune Supergiant to claim their third championship.
From 2015–2018, Mumbai Indians held an eight-game winning streak against the Kolkata Knight Riders. That streak was broken on 29 April 2019, as KKR posted a total of 232 runs and won by 34 runs. Both sides displayed excellent hitting as KKR's Andre Russell scored 80 runs and MI's Hardik Pandya scored 91 runs. KKR holds the record for highest total for an IPL match played at Eden Gardens. This victory was KKR's 100th T20 win.


== Home ground ==
The home venue of the Knight Riders is the iconic Eden Gardens (with the two ends of the crease called the High Court End and the Club House End). Owned by the Cricket Association of Bengal, it was the largest cricket stadium in India and had a seating capacity of over 90,000. In 2011, the stadium was renovated to meet the standards set by the International Cricket Council for the 2011 Cricket World Cup; reducing its capacity to around 68,000. The renovated stadium includes a new clubhouse and players' facilities, upgrading the exterior wall, cladding the existing roof structure with a new metal skin, and general infrastructure improvements. In 2013, two of the team's home matches were hosted by the JSCA International Cricket Stadium in Ranchi.


== Kit manufacturers and sponsors ==
Multinational communications corporation Nokia was the official founding sponsor of the Kolkata Knight Riders and remained their principal sponsor until 2014. In 2015, Chinese mobile phone manufacturer Gionee took over as their principal sponsor and signed a three-year deal worth ₹540 million (US$7.6 million). In 2018, Nokia returned as the main sponsor of the Knight Riders, signing a two-year deal. In 2020, MPL became their principal sponsor. Star Plus, Reebok, HDIL, Kit Kat, SB Nation, Doublemint, SAP AG, Red FM 93.5, Seiko, U.S. Polo Assn., Uber, Manyavar, Dish TV, Sansui Electric, Ola Cabs, Exide, Sprite, Dream11, Pepsi and Sony Music India have all formerly been either co-sponsors or partners.
As of 2020, they have co-sponsorship deals with Jio, Lux Cozi, Royal Stag, Greenply and Asian Paints along with others. They also have partnerships with The Telegraph, Fever 104 FM and Ibibo.


== Players ==
Sourav Ganguly, the former captain of the Indian cricket team was the icon player and led the franchise in the 2008 and 2010 seasons. Brendon McCullum lead the team in the intervening period. Both captains were released before the 2011 season. The former team included all-rounders Chris Gayle, David Hussey, Laxmi Ratan Shukla, Angelo Mathews, batsman Ricky Ponting and wicket-keeper Wriddhiman Saha. The main bowlers were Umar Gul, Ishant Sharma, Ashok Dinda, Ajit Agarkar and Murali Karthik. Australian batsman Brad Hodge and bowlers Ajantha Mendis and Charl Langeveldt were bought outside the IPL auction in late 2008.
At the 2009 auction the team bought Bangladeshi all-rounder Mashrafe Mortaza at a whopping price of $600,000 dollars. Due to the unavailability of Pakistani players starting 2009, KKR had to suspend the contract of Umar Gul, who was a key performer from the 2008 season. On 26 April 2009, KKR administration sent back two of its players Akash Chopra and Sanjay Bangar on the premises of poor performance. Shane Bond was acquired after releasing Ricky Ponting, Morne van Wyk and the Pakistani players Umar Gul, Salman Butt, Mohammad Hafeez and Shoaib Akhtar before the third season. Moises Henriques was traded to Delhi in return for Owais Shah and Manoj Tiwary. Thus, their overseas roster for the 2010 season consisted of Shane Bond, Mashrafe Mortaza, Brendon McCullum, Charl Langeveldt, Ajantha Mendis, Angelo Mathews, Brad Hodge, David Hussey, Owais Shah and Chris Gayle.
2011 heralded the beginning of a new era for KKR. In the 2011 season, KKR drastically revamped their squad. Former captain and icon player Sourav Ganguly was not purchased in the January auction. This led to protest rallies, signature campaigns throughout the country and abroad along with stadium protests by various fan groups, such as No Dada No KKR, which received both national and international press attention. The team appointed Gautam Gambhir, who was bought for a record-breaking $2.4 million as skipper. Yusuf Pathan was also picked up for a whopping $2.1 million. Other international names who were added include Shakib Al Hasan, Brad Haddin, Jacques Kallis, Brett Lee, Ryan ten Doeschate, Eoin Morgan and James Pattinson. Haddin was replaced by Mark Boucher mid-season due to injury.In the 2012 auction, KKR bought back their former captain, Brendon McCullum. They also acquired West Indian spinner Sunil Narine and South African fast bowler Marchant de Lange.
The team later added four domestic players to their squad, including Debabrata Das and Iresh Saxena from Bengal, Saurashtra's Chirag Jani and Sanju Samson from Kerala. However, in November 2012, KKR released the latter three from their team along with Jaydev Unadkat, a key performer from the previous seasons. In the 2013 auction, the team acquired only two overseas players, Sachithra Senanayake and Ryan McLaren.
Before the February 2014 auction, the team had only retained their key performers Gautam Gambhir and Sunil Narine. From the auctions that took place, the team brought back Jacques Kallis and Yusuf Pathan with their right-to-match (RTM) card. Also keeping their place in the squad was Ryan ten Doeschate and Shakib Al Hasan. New international players were Morne Morkel, Patrick Cummins and Chris Lynn. Prominent Indian players bought included Robin Uthappa, Umesh Yadav, Manish Pandey, Suryakumar Yadav and Piyush Chawla.
KKR's impressive additions in the 2015 auction were veteran Australian bowler Brad Hogg and wicket-keeper Sheldon Jackson. Before the auction in February 2016, they released Ryan ten Doeschate who was a part of their team for five consecutive seasons along with pace bowler Pat Cummins. The Knight Riders were particularly noted for their change in approach from the previous auctions where they had concentrated on spinners. For the 2016 edition, however, they acquired as many as six pacers in the form of all-rounders John Hastings, Colin Munro, Jason Holder and Rajagopal Sathish as well as bowlers Ankit Rajpoot and Jaydev Unadkat, with the latter being a former player of the squad. They signed one spinner in Manan Sharma. Before the 2017 auctions, they released Morne Morkel, Brad Hogg, Jason Holder, Colin Munro, John Hastings, Jaydev Unadkat, Rajagopal Sathish, Manan Sharma and replacement signing Shaun Tait. From the 2017 Indian Premier League auction, they signed Trent Boult, English all-rounder Chris Woakes, Australian Nathan Coulter-Nile, West Indian Darren Bravo and Jamaican Rovman Powell. The domestic players signed were Rishi Dhawan, Ishank Jaggi, Sayan Ghosh and R Sanjay Yadav. At the time, Andre Russell was banned for one year for doping; he was replaced by Colin de Grandhomme for the season. In January 2018, they only retained West Indian cricketers Sunil Narine and Andre Russell. Their two-time title winning captain Gautam Gambhir was released. At the auction, they retained Robin Uthappa, Piyush Chawla and Kuldeep Yadav using RTM (Right-To-Match) card. KKR also bought back their impressive opener Chris Lynn and uncapped Indian batsman Ishank Jaggi. Other uncapped batsmen bought were Nitish Rana, Shubman Gill, Cameron Delport, Rinku Singh and Apoorv Wankhade. They also bought West Indian uncapped all-rounder Javon Searles and uncapped Indian all-rounders Kamlesh Nagarkoti and Shivam Mavi. Other signings were veteran Indian wicket-keeper Dinesh Karthik, Australian pace bowlers Mitchell Starc and Mitchell Johnson and former Knight Riders player Vinay Kumar.
On 4 March 2018, Dinesh Karthik was appointed as the captain of KKR for IPL 2018 and Robin Uthappa was named vice-captain. Mitchell Starc was ruled out before the season due to injury and Tom Curran was announced as his replacement. Ahead of the auction for IPL 2019, eight players were released from the squad including Mitchell Starc and his replacement Tom Curran.
At the auction, their high-profile buys were Carlos Brathwaite for ₹50 million (US$700,000) and New Zealand pacer Lockie Ferguson for ₹16 million (US$220,000). Other players bought were South African pacer Anrich Nortje, English duo Harry Gurney and Joe Denly as well as uncapped Indian players Nikhil Naik, Prithvi Raj Yarra and Shrikant Mundhe for their base prices of ₹2 million (US$28,000) each. Before IPL 2020, KKR released 11 players from their squad and also traded in Siddhesh Lad from Mumbai Indians.
At the 2020 IPL Auction, KKR bought pace bowler Pat Cummins for 15.5 crores. This was the biggest buy in the auction. KKR also purchased Eoin Morgan, who just came off as captain of the World Cup winning England squad. He was bought for 5.25 crores.


== Seasons ==
The Knight Riders qualified for the Champions League Twenty20 in 2011, 2012 and 2014, which was the last edition of the tournament before it being permanently called off. The team was eliminated in the group stage in 2011 and 2012, but finished as runners-up in the ultimate season.


== Current squad ==
Players with international caps are listed in bold.
 *  denotes a player who is currently unavailable for selection.
 *  denotes a player who is unavailable for rest of the season.


== Administration and support staff ==


== Statistics ==


=== Overall results ===
Abandoned matches are counted as NR (no result)
Win or loss by super over or boundary count are counted as tied.Source=ESPNCricinfo


=== Result summary ===
Source: ESPNCricinfo


=== Overall results in CLT20 ===


== In popular culture ==
A reality show by the name Knights and Angels aired on NDTV Imagine in 2009 to pick six cheerleaders for the Knight Riders for the 2009 edition of the Indian Premier League.


== See also ==

List of Indian Premier League records and statistics
List of Kolkata Knight Riders records


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Kolkata Knight Riders on IPLT20 WebsiteThe Kings XI Punjab (KXIP) are a franchise cricket team based in Mohali (Chandigarh CR), Punjab, that plays in the Indian Premier League (IPL). Established in 2008, the franchise is jointly owned by Mohit Burman, Ness Wadia, Preity Zinta and Karan Paul. The team plays its home matches at the PCA Stadium, Mohali. Since the 2010 IPL, they have been playing some of their home games at either Dharamsala or Indore.
The Kings XI Punjab's catchment areas are Kashmir, Jammu, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana—evident from the letter sequence "K J H P H" in the banner of the team's logo. Apart from the 2014 season when they topped the league table and finished runners-up, the team has made only one other playoff appearance in 12 seasons.


== Franchise history ==
In 2007, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) created the cricket tournament the Indian Premier League based on the Twenty20 format of the game. Franchises for eight cities were made available in an auction held in Mumbai on 20 February 2008. The team representing Punjab was bought by the Dabur group's Mohit Burman (46%), the Wadia group's Ness Wadia (23%), Preity Zinta (23%), and Saptarshi Dey of the Dey & Dey Group (minor stake). The group paid a total of $76 million to acquire the franchise.


=== Expulsion from the IPL and return ===
Following the controversy surrounding the BCCI and Lalit Modi in 2010, the Indian Premier League announced on 10 October 2010 that it had terminated the franchise contracts of Kings XI Punjab and the Rajasthan Royals. The teams announced that they would take legal action to remain in the Indian Premier League. Initially, the team tried to negotiate a solution with the league, but when one could not be reached, they decided to file a case in Mumbai High Court accusing the IPL of getting rid of the two teams so that when the bidding process started for the 2012 IPL season, the contract would be given to a more lucrative bidder.Kings XI Punjab was reinstated with the involvement of the High Court.


== Team history ==


=== 2008 ===
The 2008 tournament got off to a slow start for the Kings XI Punjab, with the team losing their first two games. However, 94 runs by Kumar Sangakkara helped them to win the third game. Despite the absence of Brett Lee and Simon Katich (who were committed to tour the West Indies with Australia), the team found its groove. Powered by their balanced bowling line-up and effective top order, the team won nine of its next 10 matches, clinching a berth in the semi-final, where their run in the tournament came to an end with a comprehensive nine-wicket loss to the Chennai Super Kings.
Shaun Marsh was arguably KXIP's star player in the inaugural IPL. The opener from Western Australia was overlooked in the IPL player auctions and was signed by the franchise on 9 April. He finished the tournament as the Orange Cap holder—the award for the player with the most runs across the competition—with an average of 68.44 and a strike rate of 139.68 in 11 innings. Marsh managed to hit one century and five half-centuries across the course of the tournament.


=== 2009 ===
Finishing as semi-finalists in 2008, Kings XI Punjab started with ambitions to win the trophy. These were supported by their new sponsors Emirates Airlines. With two available slots to fill, the Kings XI Punjab made bids on Jerome Taylor and Yusuf Abdulla at the second IPL auction.
The team took a hit as most of their Australian cricketers were unavailable. The team lacked available pace bowlers after Jerome Taylor backed out at the last minute with an injury.
The team lost badly to the Delhi Daredevils and the Kolkata Knight Riders, however, they returned to form by beating the Royal Challengers, the Rajasthan Royals and the Mumbai Indians. Then the team witnessed a roller-coaster ride in their next eight matches with four wins and four losses. The team's semi-final hopes were crushed after losing to the Chennai Super Kings in their last match.


=== 2010 ===
Kings XI Punjab lost six matches to the Kolkata Knight Riders, the Delhi Daredevils, the Royal Challengers Bangalore, the Deccan Chargers, the Rajasthan Royals and the Mumbai Indians but managed to win a match against Chennai Super Kings when the scores were level and the match went to a Super Over. Kings XI Punjab were boosted by the return of Brett Lee against Kolkata, but he was not at his best. Shaun Marsh returned in the match against the Mumbai Indians. In spite of his good performance, which included a half century, the team lost the match. They ended IPL3 in the last position.


=== 2011 ===
The 2011 IPL season looked promising when they brought a full strength team with Michael Bevan as coach and Adam Gilchrist was appointed as captain.
Kings XI Punjab missed out on the play offs by two points (or one victory). This meant they finished fifth in the points table.


=== 2012 ===
Kings XI Punjab finished in sixth place overall, winning eight matches out of sixteen.


=== 2013 ===
Kings XI Punjab failed to qualify for the play-offs, but batsman David Miller played one of the innings of the tournament in the 51st match against the Royal Challengers Bangalore, as he smashed 101 off 38 deliveries and included eight fours and seven sixes. Coming in at 51–3 in the eighth over and chasing a target of 190, Miller rectified the game and led Punjab to a six-wicket win with two overs remaining. Adam Gilchrist retired at the end of the season.


=== 2014 ===
Australia's T20I captain George Bailey was leading the squad for the seventh season. Other buys featured the likes of Virender Sehwag, Glenn Maxwell and Mitchell Johnson. Kings XI Punjab began the tournament by winning their first five games which were held outside India in UAE due to elections. The stand out player was Glenn Maxwell with his unorthodox and powerful hitting, scoring 95, 89 and 95 in his first three innings with a strike rate of over 200 who got equal contribution from South African David Miller, both of them making the side look invincible. There were many innings from the veteran Indian batsman Virender Sehwag and young star Manan Vohra which made the middle order batting easy and allowed the team to qualify for the playoffs. Due to a 122 run knock from Virender Sehwag against the Chennai Super Kings in the semifinal, KXIP made their way to the final. There they faced the Kolkata Knight Riders where they batted first and set a good target of 199 owing to Wriddhiman Saha's 115. However, due to Manish Pandey's 94 off 50 balls and his teammates' consistently high run rate, including Piyush Chawla's 13 off five balls, KKR were able to win the final by three wickets in the final over of the match.


==== 2014 CLT20 ====
Kings XI were placed in Group B along with the Hobart Hurricanes (Australia); the Barbados Tridents (West Indies); the Cape Cobras (South Africa) and the Northern Knights (New Zealand).
Kings XI's first match was in their home stadium the PCA Stadium, Mohali where they beat Hobart Hurricanes by five wickets, overhauling Hobart's 144–6 in 17.4 overs. Thisara Perera was named the Man Of The Match with 2–17 and 35. Glenn Maxwell top scored in the game with 43. They also won the second match beating the Barbados Tridents by four wickets. They won their third match of the competition against the Northern Knights and qualified for the semi finals. They continued to win their final group match against the Cape Cobras but were knocked out of the tournament at the semi-final stage with a disappointing defeat against their IPL rivals the Chennai Super Kings, who went on to win the tournament.


=== 2015 ===
George Bailey continued to lead the side during the 2015 season. The team won just three of the 14 games and finishing eighth in the league. David Miller finished the season as top scorer with 357 runs and Anureet Singh finished the season as the top wicket taker with 15 wickets.


=== 2016 ===
David Miller and Murali Vijay captained the team in the first and second half of the 2016 season. The team finished eighth once again with only four wins. Murali Vijay was the top scorer with 453 runs and Sandeep Sharma was the top wicket taker with 15 wickets.


=== 2017 ===
Virender Sehwag joined as head coach as the team looked to recover from two back-to-back last-place finishes in the league. Glenn Maxwell was appointed as the captain. Eoin Morgan, Darren Sammy and Hashim Amla joined the likes of David Miller in the team. The team missed out on a place in the play-offs by a last game defeat to the Rising Pune Supergiant and ended the season in fifth, winning seven out of their 14 games. Hashim Amla finished the season as top scorer with 420 runs including two centuries, and Sandeep Sharma was the top wicket taker with 17 wickets.


=== 2018 ===
The Kings XI Punjab squad for the 2018 IPL season included internationals such as: Ravichandran Ashwin, Yuvraj Singh, KL Rahul, Aaron Finch and Chris Gayle. Ashwin was appointed as captain and Brad Hodge as coach. The Tournament started well with KL Rahul scoring a fine fifty off 14 balls to guide KXIP home against Daredevils. Riding on KL Rahul and Chris Gayle's red hot form at the top and Andrew Tye and Mujeeb with ball, the team went on to win 5 out of their first six games eventually becoming favourites to the title. Their weakness in Indian core was however exposed as they could manage just one win in next eight and ultimately not being qualified for playoffs despite a dream start from the beginning.


=== 2019 ===
Franchises confirmed the names of retained players for the 12th season of Indian Premier League. KXIP retained the following players for the 2019 season: KL Rahul, Chris Gayle, Andrew Tye, Mayank Agarwal, Ankit Rajpoot, Mujeeb Ur Rahman, Karun Nair, David Miller and Ravichandran Ashwin. On the auction day (18 December 2018), KXIP snapped up new 13 players: Varun Chakaravarthy, Sam Curran, Mohammed Shami, Prabhsimran Singh, Nicholas Pooran, Moises Henriques, Hardus Viljoen, Darshan Nalkande, Sarfaraz Khan, Arshdeep Singh, Agnivesh Ayachi, Harpreet Brar, and Murugan Ashwin.Kings XI Punjab ended up in sixth position in the league table. KL Rahul was the highest run scorer for the team with 593 runs in 14 matches.


== Seasons ==
Kings XI played in the now defunct Champions League Twenty20 once, in 2014 and finished as semi-finalists.


== Current squad ==
Players with international caps are listed in bold.
 *  denotes a player who is currently unavailable for selection.
 *  denotes a player who is unavailable for rest of the season.


== Administration and support staff ==
Owner -  Mohit Burman,  Ness Wadia,  Priety Zinta,  Karan Paul
CEO -  Satish Menon
Team manager -  Avinash Vaidya
Director of cricket operations and head coach -  Anil Kumble
Assistant coach -  Andy Flower
Batting coach -  Wasim Jaffer
Bowling coach -  Charl Langeveldt
Fielding coach -  Jonty Rhodes
Team physio -  Andrew Leipus
Assistant physiotherapist -  Abhijit Kar
Trainer -  Adrian Le Roux
Assistant trainer -  Prabhakar B
Massuer -  Naresh Kumar
R&D Consultant -  Sankar Rajgopal
Nutritionist -
Team doctor -
Psychologist -
Yoga instructor -


== Head coaches ==
 Tom Moody- 2008–2010
 Michael Bevan - 2011
 Adam Gilchrist - 2012
 Darren Lehmann - 2013
 Sanjay Bangar - 2014–2016
 Virender Sehwag - 2017
 Brad Hodge - 2018
 Mike Hesson - 2019
 Anil Kumble - 2020-


== Captains ==


== Sponsors and partners ==
In 2015, the official title sponsor of the Kings XI were Tata Motors Prima while they had on board as many as 25 sponsors, the highest for any team in the IPL. Their principal sponsors are HTC, Royal Stag, ACC Limited and DCB Bank while Britannia, BIG FM 92.7, Mountain Dew, Kingfisher Premium, Bookmyshow, Punjab Kesari, The Tribune, Blippar, Smile Foundation, Trip Factory and AIDS Healthcare Foundation function as their partners.


== Statistics ==


=== Performance summary ===
 Last updated: 25 July 2020


=== Opposition in Indian Premier League ===
 Last updated: 5 July 2020
Full Table on Cricinfo


=== Opposition in cl20 League ===
 Last updated: 14 December 2018


== References ==


== External links ==
Official King's XI Punjab SiteThe Sunrisers Hyderabad (often abbreviated as SRH) are a franchise cricket team based in Hyderabad, Telangana, India, that plays in the Indian Premier League (IPL). The franchise is owned by Kalanithi Maran (from Tamil Nadu) of the Sun TV Network and was founded in 2012 after the Hyderabad-based Deccan Chargers were terminated by the IPL. The team is currently captained by David Warner and coached by Trevor Bayliss. The primary homeground of the team is the Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket Stadium, Hyderabad with a capacity of 55,000.The brand value of the Sunrisers Hyderabad was estimated to be ₹483 crore (US$68 million) in 2019 as the overall brand of IPL was increased to ₹47,000 crore (US$6.6 billion), according to Duff & Phelps.The team made their first IPL appearance in 2013, where they reached the playoffs, eventually finishing in fourth place. The SunRisers won their maiden IPL title in the 2016 season, defeating Royal Challengers Bangalore by 8 runs in the final. The team has qualified for the play-off stage of the tournament in every season since 2016. In 2018, the team reached the finals of the Indian Premier League, but lost to Chennai Super Kings by 8 Wickets, following a century by Shane Watson. The team is considered one of the best bowling sides, often admired for its ability to defend low totals. David Warner is the leading run scorer for the side, having won the Orange Cap 3 times, in 2015, 2017, and 2019. Bhuvneshwar Kumar is the leading wicket-taker.


== Franchise history ==
SunRisers Hyderabad replaced the Deccan Chargers in 2012 and debuted in 2013. The franchise was taken over by Sun TV Network after the Deccan Chronicle went bankrupt. The squad was announced in Chennai on 18 December 2012. The team is owned by Sun TV Network who won the bid with ₹85.05 crore (US$12 million) per year for a five-year deal, a week after the Chargers were terminated due to prolonged financial issues. Sun TV Network Limited, which is headquartered in Chennai, is one of India's biggest television networks with 32 TV channels and 45 FM radio stations, making it India's largest media and entertainment company.The team jersey was unveiled on 8 March 2013, and the team anthem composed by G. V. Prakash Kumar was released on 12 March 2013. The logo was unveiled on 20 December 2012, along with the announcement that the team's management would be led by Kris Srikkanth, now replaced by veteran Muttiah Muralitharan, Tom Moody and V. V. S. Laxman.


== Team history ==


=== 2013–2014: Initial years ===
SunRisers Hyderabad made their IPL debut in the 2013 season. They retained 20 players from the Chargers, which left slots open for 13 players (eight Indian, five overseas). They filled six of these with Thisara Perera, Darren Sammy, Sudeep Tyagi, Nathan McCullum, Quinton de Kock and Clint McKay. Kumar Sangakkara captained SRH for nine matches and Cameron White was captain for the remaining seven, as well as the eliminator match in the playoffs. In their inaugural season, the team reached the playoffs but were eliminated after losing against Rajasthan Royals by 4 wickets at Feroz Shah Kotla in Delhi on 22 May 2013. The team played all of their home games in Hyderabad.
For the 2014 season, Pune Warriors India was defunct and not replaced, leaving only eight teams in the league. The team retained two players, Dale Steyn and Shikhar Dhawan. As a result of this retention, the team had an auction purse of ₹380 million (US$5.3 million) and two right-to-match cards. Shikhar Dhawan and Darren Sammy were named as captain and vice captain respectively. Due to the 2014 Lok Sabha Elections, the season was partially held outside India with the opening 20 matches hosted in the United Arab Emirates and the remaining matches played in India from 2 May onwards. The team finished in 6th place with six wins and eight losses, failing to secure a place in the playoffs. Dhawan led the team for the first ten matches while Sammy led the team for remaining four.


=== 2015–2017: Maiden title and success ===
For the 2015 season, SRH retained 13 players and released 11. David Warner was appointed as the captain for this season and led the team in all matches played. Muttiah Muralitharan was appointed the team's bowling coach as well as mentor. SunRisers Hyderabad played their first three home games at Visakhapatnam and the remaining four home games at Hyderabad. The team again finished 6th with seven wins and seven losses, failing to reach the playoffs. Warner won the first Orange Cap for SunRisers Hyderabad.For the 2016 season, SRH retained 15 players and released nine. After the auction, SRH traded two players. SunRisers Hyderabad were crowned champions after defeating Royal Challengers Bangalore in the final and ending the season with 11 wins and six losses. This was their maiden, and to date only, title. Bhuvneshwar Kumar became the first SunRisers Hyderabad player to win the Purple Cap.
For the 2017 season, SRH retained 17 players and released six from the title-winning squad. The team then spent ₹45.1 crore (US$6.3 million) at the auction, leaving ₹20.9 crore (US$2.9 million) remaining. As the defending champions, as per IPL norms, SRH hosted both the opening and closing ceremonies of the season. The team finished 3rd on points in the table. They lost against the Kolkata Knight Riders in the eliminator match at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium in Bangalore. The team made a below-par total of 128–7 in 20 overs, but the Kolkata Knight Riders' innings was reduced to just six overs due to rain. The revised total was 48, which the Knight Riders met with seven wickets and four balls remaining. Bhuvneshwar Kumar was able to retain the Purple Cap while David Warner won the Orange Cap.


=== 2018 ===
For the 2018 season, the Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals were reinstated in the league after serving a two-year suspension from the competition due to the involvement of their players in the 2013 IPL betting scandal. The IPL governing council decided that a maximum of five players can be retained by each IPL team. SRH retained only two players and released all remaining players from the squad. The retention of two players meant SRH went in to the 2018 IPL auction with ₹59 crore in their auction purse and three right-to-match (RTM) cards. The salary deduction for every retained player from the franchise's salary purse was stipulated to be ₹15 crore, ₹11 crore and ₹7 crore if three players were retained; ₹12.5 crore and ₹8.5 crore if two players were retained; and ₹12.5 crore if only one player was retained. For retaining an uncapped player, salary deduction was set at ₹3 crore. David Warner had stepped down from captaincy on 28 March 2018 and the BCCI announced that he will not be allowed to play in IPL 2018 following the Australian ball-tampering controversy. On 29 March, New Zealand captain Kane Williamson was chosen to lead SRH for the 2018 season. On 31 March, England batsman Alex Hales was announced as replacement for the banned David Warner.SRH finished the 2018 season as runners-up of the competition after losing to Chennai Super Kings in the final with 10 wins and seven losses. Williamson won the Orange Cap with 735 runs.


=== 2019 ===
Ahead of the auction, SRH traded Shikhar Dhawan to Delhi Capitals in favour of Shahbaz Nadeem, Vijay Shankar and Abhishek Sharma. SRH retained 17 players and released nine players. On auction day (18 December 2018) SRH bought three new players; Jonny Bairstow, Martin Guptill and Wriddhiman Saha, the latter of which was bought back in the auction after initially being released. David Warner made a comeback to IPL on 24 March 2019 after he was banned by BCCI to participate in 2018 season due to Australian ball-tampering controversy.
SRH decided to stay with Kane Williamson as captain and Bhuvneshwar Kumar as vice-captain. Before start of the season, Williamson was nursing an injury and Kumar lead the team in the first game against Kolkata Knight Riders and from third game till sixth game.
SRH ended the 2019 season with 6 wins and 9 losses. They lost against Delhi Capitals in the Eliminator at Dr. Y. S. Rajasekhara Reddy ACA-VDCA Cricket Stadium in Visakhapatnam. David Warner won the orange cap in this season.


=== 2020 ===
Ahead of the auction, SRH retained 18 players and released 5 players. On auction day (19 December 2019) SRH bought 7 new players. SRH parted ways with Tom Moody and Simon Helmot. They have named Trevor Bayliss and Brad Haddin as Head coach and Assistant Coach respectively. On 27 February 2020, David Warner was reinstated as captain of SRH replacing Kane Williamson.


== Home ground ==

The Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket Stadium is the principal cricket stadium in Hyderabad, Telangana state, India and is the home ground of the SunRisers Hyderabad. It is owned by the Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA). It is located in the eastern suburb of Uppal and has a seating capacity of 55,000.
In 2015, the 40,000-capacity Dr. Y. S. Rajasekhara Reddy ACA–VDCA Cricket Stadium, which is located in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, was selected as the secondary home ground for SunRisers Hyderabad. During the 2015 season, the team played their first three home games at this ground.
During the 2017 season, as the SunRisers Hyderabad were defending IPL champions, they hosted the season opener and final. SRH selected their primary home ground to host their home games.
During the 2019 season, Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket Stadium was selected to host the final after BCCI decided to shift the match from M. A. Chidambaram Stadium in Chennai due to the issues with the locked Stands and after TNCA failed to secure permission to open the three locked stands for the Final of the season. Hyderabad Cricket Association won the award for best ground and pitch during 2019 IPL.


== Seasons ==
KeyDNQ = Did not qualify
TBD = To be decided


== Head Coaches ==


== Captains ==
Last updated on 9 May 2019


== Squad ==
Players with international caps are listed in bold.
 *  denotes a player who is currently unavailable for selection.
 *  denotes a player who is unavailable for rest of the season.


== Administration and support staff ==


== Former players ==


== Kit manufacturers and sponsors ==


== Result summary ==


=== IPL ===


==== By season ====
Last match updated was against Delhi Capitals on 8 May 2019


==== By opposition ====
Last updated 8 May 2019


=== CLT20 ===


==== By season ====


==== By opposition ====


== Fixtures and results ==


=== IPL ===


==== 2013 season ====


==== 2014 season ====


==== 2015 season ====


==== 2016 season ====


==== 2017 season ====


==== 2018 season ====


==== 2019 season ====


==== 2020 season ====


=== CLT20 ===


==== 2013 season ====


== Awards and achievements ==
2013 Indian Premier LeagueSemi-finalists of the 2013 Indian Premier League
Hat-trick: (Amit Mishra vs. Pune Warriors)
IPL Awards: Most Economic Bowler (Anand Rajan – 5.25)
IPL Awards: Most Bowling Dots (Dale Steyn – 211)2013 Champions LeagueQualified to group stage from qualifying stage2014 Indian Premier LeagueHighest Team Total of the Tournament (205/5)
Best Bowling Figures of the Tournament (Bhuvneshwar Kumar – 4/14)
Best Catches of the Season (Dale Steyn)2015 Indian Premier LeagueWinner of Orange Cap (David Warner – 562 runs)
David Warner becomes the first player to score 50+ as a captain
Yes Bank Maximum Super Sixes Competition (Moises Henriques – 106 metres)
Hat-trick Winning Streak
Best Catches of the Season (David Warner)
IPL Awards: Most Fours (David Warner – 65)
IPL Awards: Best Bowling Average (Moises Henriques – 14.36)2016 Indian Premier LeagueChampions of the 2016 Indian Premier League
Player of the Final (Ben Cutting)
Winner of Purple Cap (Bhuvneshwar Kumar – 23 wickets)
Fair Play Award Winner
Emerging Player of the Year (Mustafizur Rahman)
Ball of the Tournament (Mustafizur Rahman)
Vitara Brezza Glam Shot of the Season (David Warner)
Longest Six of the Tournament (Ben Cutting – 117 metres)
Yes Bank Maximum Super Sixes Competition (David Warner)
IPL Awards: Most Fours (David Warner – 88)
IPL Awards: Most Bowling Dots (Bhuvneshwar Kumar – 156)2017 Indian Premier LeaguePlay-Offs of the 2017 Indian Premier League
Winner of Orange Cap (David Warner – 641 runs)
David Warner scores the highest run total as a captain in all IPL seasons
Winner of Purple Cap (Bhuvneshwar Kumar – 26 wickets)
Vitara Brezza Glam Shot of the Season (Yuvraj Singh)
IPL Awards: Highest Individual Score (David Warner – 126)
IPL Awards: Most Fours (David Warner – 63)
David Warner becomes the first player to score 100+ as a captain as well as for Sunrisers Hyderabad2018 Indian Premier LeagueRunners-up of the 2018 Indian Premier League
Winning Streak: 6, highest in all IPL seasons for SRH
Winner of Orange Cap (Kane Williamson – 735 runs)
IPL Awards: Most Bowling Dots (Rashid Khan – 167)
Kane Williamson scored the most fifties in 2018 IPL season and became the first NZ cricketer to win the Orange Cap2019 Indian Premier LeaguePlay-Offs of 2019 Indian Premier League
Highest successful chase for Sunrisers Hyderabad in IPL history (199 against Rajasthan Royals at home.
Jonny Bairstow became the second player and first keeper-batsmen for Sunrisers Hyderabad to score 100+.
David Warner scored his second IPL hundred for SRH.
David Warner and Jonny Bairstow become the first opening pair to get 100's each in IPL history and for Sunrisers Hyderabad. It is the 2nd instances in IPL and fourth instances overall of two batsman scoring century in a single innings.
David Warner and Jonny Bairstow (Sunrisers Hyderabad) recorded the highest first-wicket partnership in the IPL (185 runs).
Sunrisers Hyderabad recorded their highest total in the IPL (231/2).
 Hyderabad's win against Bangalore was the largest winning margin for them in terms of runs (118 runs).
It was the second instance of two batsmen scoring hundreds in the same match in the IPL, and the fourth overall instance in a T20 match.
Mohammad Nabi recorded the second-best bowling figures for Sunrisers Hyderabad in the IPL (4/11 vs RCB)
Winner of Orange cap: '(David Warner - 692 runs)'
Fair Play Award Winner


== See also ==

List of Sunrisers Hyderabad records
Deccan Chargers


== References ==


== External links ==
Sunrisers Hyderabad official websiteThe Chennai Super Kings (CSK) are a franchise cricket team based in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, which plays in the Indian Premier League (IPL). Founded in 2008, the team plays its home matches at the M. A. Chidambaram Stadium in Chennai. The team served a two-year suspension from the IPL starting July 2015 for the alleged involvement of their owners in the 2013 IPL betting case, and won the title in its comeback season. The team is captained by Mahendra Singh Dhoni and coached by Stephen Fleming.
The Super Kings have lifted the IPL title thrice (in 2010, 2011 and 2018), and have the best win percentage among all teams in the IPL (61.28). They hold the records of most appearances in the playoffs (ten) and the Final (eight) of the IPL. They are the only IPL team to qualify for the playoff stage in each edition of their appearance in the league. In addition, they have also won the Champions League Twenty20 in 2010 and 2014. The brand value of the Super Kings in 2019 is estimated to be around ₹732 crore (roughly $104 million), making them the second-most valuable IPL franchise, after Mumbai Indians.


== Franchise history ==
In September 2007, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) announced the establishment of the Indian Premier League, a Twenty20 competition to be started in 2008. In January 2008, the BCCI unveiled the owners of eight city-based franchises. The Chennai franchise was sold to the India Cements for $91 million, making it the fourth most expensive team in the league behind Mumbai, Bangalore and Hyderabad. India Cements acquired the rights to the franchise for 10 years. Former ICC Chairman N. Srinivasan was the de facto owner of the Chennai Super Kings, by means of his position as the vice-chairman and managing director of India Cements Ltd. The franchisee was transferred to a separate entity named Chennai Super Kings Cricket Ltd., after the Supreme Court of India struck down the controversial amendment to the BCCI constitution's clause 6.2.4 that allowed board officials to have a commercial interest in the IPL and the Champions League T20 on 22 January 2015.


== Team history ==


=== 2008–2009: First seasons ===

During the first player auctions for the inaugural IPL season conducted in January 2008, the Chennai franchise bought a number of contemporary star cricketers such as Mahendra Singh Dhoni, Matthew Hayden, Stephen Fleming, Muttiah Muralitharan and Michael Hussey. Dhoni became the costliest player of the auction, as the Chennai franchise bought him for $1.5 million. The franchise named Dhoni as the captain of the team and appointed Kepler Wessels as the head coach. They played their first game on 19 April 2008 against Kings XI Punjab at Mohali. The Super Kings won the game by 33 runs after posting 240/5 in 20 overs, which was the highest total of the tournament, a record surpassed by themselves in 2010. The Super Kings ended the league stage with eight wins from 14 games and finished third on the points table. They beat the Kings XI Punjab by 9 wickets in the semifinal. The Super Kings faced the Rajasthan Royals in the final of the IPL at Mumbai. Batting first, the Super Kings scored 163/5 in 20 overs and lost the game by 3 wickets off the final delivery of the match. They also earned a spot in the inaugural Champions League Twenty20 along with Rajasthan, but the tournament was cancelled due to the 2008 Mumbai attacks and the Super Kings, along with Rajasthan, received $5 million each as compensation. Fleming, who had decided to retire from all forms of the game after the first season of the IPL, took over as the coach of the Super Kings team from Wessels for the next season which was to be held in South Africa.
For the 2009 season, the Super Kings bought English all-rounder Andrew Flintoff for $1.55 million at the auction making him the highest-paid IPL cricketer along with English teammate Kevin Pietersen who was bought for the same amount by Royal Challengers Bangalore. However, Flintoff played only 3 matches for them before suffering a knee injury that ruled him out of the season. The Super Kings were also without the services of Hussey who had decided to skip the IPL season to focus on The Ashes. The Super Kings finished with 17 points from 14 matches and earned a second place at the league table. However, at the semi-finals, their hopes of entering the final for a second time were crushed by the Royal Challengers who beat them by 6 wickets. The Super Kings opener Matthew Hayden, who scored 572 runs in 12 innings with 5 half-centuries at an average of 52 and strike-rate of 145, won the Orange Cap for the leading run-scorer of the season and was also adjudged Player of the Tournament.


=== 2010: IPL and CLT20 double ===

In 2010, the Super Kings struggled in the first half of the regular season, winning only two matches out of seven. They won four of their next five games in the season mainly due to the efforts of Murali Vijay and Suresh Raina. After a defeat at home to the Delhi Daredevils, the Super Kings were left with a must-win match against Kings XI Punjab at Dharamshala. The Super Kings won the match by six wickets as they chased down the target of 193 with two balls to spare with skipper Dhoni scoring an unbeaten 54 from 29 balls. Thus, with seven wins from 14 matches, Chennai finished with the same number of points as three other teams with two semi-final spots at stake. Chennai got the third place as they had the better net run rate of the four teams which finished on 14 points. In the semifinal, the Super Kings scored a modest 142/7 in 20 overs against the defending champions Deccan Chargers. But an inspired bowling spell from Doug Bollinger (4/13 in four overs) did the most damage as the Chargers were bowled out for 104. This gave the Super Kings a 38-run victory that took them to the final. The Super Kings faced the tournament favourites Mumbai Indians at their home ground in the final. Suresh Raina's 57 (35) helped the Super Kings recover from 68/3 after 12 overs to put up 168/5 at the end of their 20 overs. Then, their spin duo of Ravichandran Ashwin and Muralitharan conceded only 41 runs in the 8 overs bowled between them to help the Super Kings won the game by 22 runs and secure their first ever IPL title. With this, the Super Kings also qualified for the 2010 Champions League Twenty20 that was held in South Africa.
At the Champions League, the Super Kings were placed in Group A along with champions of Twenty20 competitions from Australia, South Africa, New Zealand and Sri Lanka. The Super Kings topped the Group table with three wins and a Super Over defeat to the Victorian Bushrangers. In the semi-final at Durban, the Super Kings comprehensively defeated IPL rivals Royal Challengers Bangalore by 52 runs. Raina won the Man of the match for his unbeaten 94 off 48 balls. The Super Kings played their first CLT20 final at Johannesburg where they beat the Chevrolet Warriors by 8 wickets, becoming the first IPL team to win the CLT20. Murali Vijay won not only the Man of the Match in the final for his 58 but also the Golden Bat for scoring the most runs in the tournament and Ashwin, who was the leading wicket-taker, was adjudged the Player of the Series. At the end of the season, Matthew Hayden decided to retire from the IPL.


=== 2011–2015: Success and suspension ===

In 2011, as two new teams were added to the IPL, the IPL Governing Council declared that each franchise could retain a maximum of four players of their squad, only three of whom can be Indian players, and the rest of the international players would be put in the mega-auction. The Chennai franchise, keen to have the same set of core players, retained captain MS Dhoni, vice-captain Suresh Raina, Murali Vijay and all-rounder Albie Morkel for a total of $4.5 million. The retention left them with the power of spending only $4.5 million at the mega-auction. At the auction, they bought back some of their star players of previous seasons such as Hussey, Ashwin, Bollinger and Subramaniam Badrinath. In the 2011 IPL, they lost three of their first five games which placed them at the bottom of the ten-team points table. But then, they went on to win seven of their next eight games to finish second and register a spot in the knockout stages. They faced the top-ranked team Royal Challengers Bangalore in the Qualifying final which they won by 6 wickets thanks to an unbeaten 73 from Suresh Raina. In the final, they faced the same opponents again, which was held at their home ground Chepauk. Vijay and Hussey put on a 133-run first-wicket partnership that helped the Super Kings to post a total of 205/5. Their bowlers, then, restricted Bangalore to only 147 to take the Super Kings to second consecutive title in the IPL. Vijay was awarded Man of the Match for his match-winning innings of 95. CSK also won all their home games that season becoming the first team in IPL to achieve the feat. However at the Champions League later that year, they won only one out of their four group matches and finished at the bottom.In 2012, the franchise signed up Indian all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja for $2 million at the players' auction. They got off to a rather slow start in the regular season, winning only five of their first 12 games which put them in doubt of qualifying for the Playoffs. Then they won three of their last four matches and qualified for the Playoffs with a better net run rate than the Royal Challengers who also finished with the same number of points. In the Eliminator, they beat the Mumbai Indians by 38 runs before comprehensively beating the table-toppers Delhi Daredevils in the Qualifying final by 86 runs. Murali Vijay, who struck his second IPL hundred (113 off 58 balls), won the Man of the Match. At the final, the Super Kings were defeated by 5 wickets by the Kolkata Knight Riders who chased down the target of 191 with two balls to spare, thus denying the Super Kings a hat-trick of titles in the IPL. At the Champions League, once again they could not progress past the group stage with two wins and two defeats.In 2013, the Super Kings strengthened their bowling attack by signing up five overseas and five Indian bowlers. In the IPL season, they finished first in the points table with 11 wins from 16 matches and qualified for the Playoffs and 2013 CLT20. This was the first time in six seasons that the Super Kings had topped the league table of the IPL. During the season, they also equalled Royal Challengers Bangalore's 2011 record for most wins in succession in the IPL (7 wins on trot). In the first Qualifier at Delhi against Mumbai Indians, the Super Kings posted 192/1 in 20 overs riding on unbeaten half-centuries from Hussey (86* off 58 balls) and Raina (82* off 42 balls) before bowling out their opponents for 144. Thus they entered the final of the IPL for the fourth time in succession where they would play the same opponents, Mumbai Indians, at Kolkata. At the final, batting first, the Mumbai Indians made 148/9 in their 20 overs. In reply, the Super Kings were reduced to 39/6 at one stage before an unbeaten half-century from skipper Dhoni took them close to the target. However, Mumbai Indians won the match by 23 runs to win their first ever IPL title. Super Kings opening batsman Michael Hussey, who scored 733 runs that season at an average of 52, won the Orange Cap for the most runs in the season while all-rounder Dwayne Bravo won the Purple Cap for bagging the most wickets (32). The Super Kings gained direct qualification for the 2013 CLT20 which was held in India in September–October. They were placed in Group B alongside Brisbane Heat, Sunrisers Hyderabad, Titans and Trinidad & Tobago. They won their first three games before losing the final group match against Trinidad & Tobago. With 12 points from four matches, the Super Kings progressed to the semifinals where they suffered a 14-run defeat at the hands of the Rajasthan Royals at Jaipur.In 2014, before the players' mega-auction, Chennai retained Dhoni, Raina, Jadeja, Ashwin and Bravo. The retention left them with a purse of ₹21 crores to spend at the auction. At the auction, the franchise bought the likes of Brendon McCullum, Dwayne Smith, Faf du Plessis, Ashish Nehra, Mohit Sharma among others. The first phase of the IPL season, as it coincided with the general elections, was held in UAE. The second phase returned to India, but the Super Kings' home matches were shifted from Chennai, due to "a deadlock between stadium authorities and the state administration", to JSCA International Stadium in Ranchi. The Super Kings started the season with a defeat in the opening match, after which they went on to win eight of their next nine matches to take the first spot in the points table. However, they suffered a loss of form towards the end of the regular season which resulted in three consecutive defeats. They won their last league fixture and finished third in the points table and qualified for the Eliminator against the fourth-placed Mumbai Indians. They won the Eliminator at Mumbai by 7 wickets and qualified for the Qualifier. At the Qualifier against Kings XI Punjab, the Super Kings won the toss and elected to field. Punjab went on to score 226/6 in their 20 overs. The Super Kings, in reply, could manage only 202/7 despite a 25-ball 87 from Raina. They crashed out of the IPL, but, on account of finishing third, qualified for the main event of the 2014 CLT20. In the group stage of the CLT20, the Super Kings won two matches, lost one while another match was a no result. Thus with 10 points they finished second in the group table and qualified for the semifinal where they met the unbeaten team of the other group, Kings XI Punjab. After being put in to bat, the Super Kings posted 182/7 in 20 overs thanks to Bravo who scored a 39-ball 67. Then their bowlers reduced Punjab to 34/6 in the eighth over, before eventually bowling them out for 117. At the final in Bangalore, the Super Kings faced the IPL champions Kolkata Knight Riders who set them a target of 181 in 20 overs. Raina guided the run-chase with an unbeaten 109 off 62 balls, helping the team to an eight-wicket win and their second CLT20 title. Super Kings spinner Pawan Negi who took 5/22 during Kolkata's innings won the Man of the Match, and Raina, who finished as the highest run-getter of the tournament, was awarded Man of the Tournament.In 2015, before the players' auction, Chennai Super Kings gave away Ben Hilfenhaus, John Hastings, Vijay Shankar and David Hussey. At the auction they bought back Michael Hussey for a price of Rs.1.5 crores. They also bought Kyle Abbott, Irfan Pathan, Andrew Tye, Eklavya Dwivedi, Ankush Bains, Pratyush Singh and Rahul Sharma. In the final, they lost against Mumbai.


=== 2018–present: "Ageing team" ===

Ahead of the players mega auction, Chennai Super Kings retained Mahendra Singh Dhoni, Suresh Raina & Ravindra Jadeja. Additionally, Faf du Plessis and Dwayne Bravo were brought back into the side using RTM. The return of the Super Kings to the IPL was the cause of a large amount of celebration and fanfare amongst the fans, with a crowd of more than 10,000 turning up for the practice sessions held at the M. A. Chidambaram Stadium in Chennai before the start of the tournament.Chennai's campaign started off with a thrilling one wicket win over the Mumbai Indians in the first match of the season. Playing their first home game in Chennai, the Kings successfully managed to chase down a target of 202 set by the Kolkata Knight Riders, aided by a quickfire half-century by Sam Billings. The team then went on to lose to Kings XI Punjab in Mohali but bounced back by winning three matches in a row against the Rajasthan Royals, Sunrisers Hyderabad and Royal Challengers Bangalore. The Super Kings' next eight matches resulted in them alternating between victories and defeats by winning against the Delhi Daredevils, Royal Challengers Bangalore, Sunrisers Hyderabad and Kings XI Punjab and losing against the Mumbai Indians, Rajasthan Royals, Delhi Daredevils and the Kolkata Knight Riders. The league stage ended with the Super Kings in second place behind the Sunrisers. Chennai then went on to post back-to-back victories against the Sunrisers Hyderabad in the first qualifier and in the final to win the Indian Premier League for the third time since the inception of the tournament.Three of the five centuries scored in the 2018 season were by players belonging to the Chennai Super Kings (Ambati Rayudu 100* and Shane Watson 106, 117*). The Super Kings also became the first team to defeat an opposing team (Sunrisers Hyderabad) four times in a single season.In 2019, the Super Kings was the first team to qualify for the Playoffs. They entered the final of the IPL for the eighth time in the league. At the final, batting first, the Mumbai Indians made 149/8 in their 20 overs. In reply, the Super Kings were able to make just one short of Mumbai's total 148/7 and lost the title. Super Kings' star bowler of the season Imran Tahir, who took 26 wickets, won the Purple Cap for bagging the most wickets.


== Home ground ==

The home ground of the Super Kings is the historic M. A. Chidambaram Stadium (commonly called "The Chepauk") located in Chennai. The stadium is named after former BCCI President M. A. Chidambaram. It is the oldest stadium in India which is in continuous use. The stadium is owned by the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association and has a seating capacity of 50,000 as of May 2013. In 2010, the stadium underwent a major renovation for hosting some of the matches of the 2011 ICC Cricket World Cup. The seating capacity was increased from 36,000 to 50,000 and three new stands were established during this renovation.
The Super Kings have a 67.44% win record at this venue, which is often referred to as "Fortress Chepauk" and "Lions' den". In the 2011 season, the Super Kings won all their home games (8 matches) including the final against Royal Challengers Bangalore. The Super Kings thus became the first team to win all their home games in a season and also the first team to win the tournament at home.
In 2014, Chennai Super Kings played all their home matches at Ranchi due to issues with Government of Tamil Nadu.
In 2018, Chennai Super Kings managed to play a solitary home game against Kolkata Knight Riders due to members of a few fringe political parties staging protests outside the stadium as well as several parts of Chennai demanding the IPL matches to be moved out of the city until the Cauvery Management Board (CMB) was set up as directed by the honourable Supreme Court of India. Despite tight security for the match against KKR, the Chennai police expressed their inability in ensuring enough personnel at the venue for the smooth conduct of the remaining games. The remaining six home matches of Chennai Super Kings were moved out of Chennai. Maharashtra Cricket Association Stadium in Pune was selected to host the remaining six home matches of Chennai Super Kings.


== Players ==

Mahendra Singh Dhoni, who was the captain of the Indian limited-overs team in 2008, was bought by the Super Kings for $1.5 million at the 2008 players' auction. He was the most expensive player in the IPL until 2009 when the Super Kings signed up English all-rounder Andrew Flintoff for $1.55 million. Dhoni is one of the most successful captains in the IPL, having led the Super Kings to eight finals of which the team has won three.The vice-captain of the team from 2008 to 2015 was Suresh Raina. Raina holds multiple IPL records such as most caps, most runs and most catches. Australian batsman Michael Hussey has the best batting average for the Super Kings. He was the first batsman from the Super Kings to score a century in the IPL. After Matthew Hayden's retirement in 2010, Hussey took over his place of opening batsman and was the team's leading run-scorer in 2011 and 2013 seasons. Murali Vijay, who played for the team from 2009 to 2013, is the first Indian batsman to score two centuries in the IPL. Super Kings' spinner Ravichandran Ashwin has the third best economy rate in IPL (6.53) and is the leading wicket-taker for the team.


== Team identity ==


=== Team name, logo design, crest and colors ===
The Chennai franchise named the team as Chennai Super Kings to honour the rulers of the Tamil empire. The word "super" is used commonly in southern India especially in Tamil Nadu. The team name also derives from India Cements' brand "Coromandel King".The team logo features the head of a roaring lion in orange and the team name rendered in blue. The crown above the team name is the same as that used in the logo of the brand Coromandel King. According to the logo designers, since lion is the king of the jungle, the roaring lion logo reflects the team name. The details of the logo signifies various qualities such as youth, vibrancy, solid performance orientation and fiery spirit.The team's primary colour is yellow with blue and orange stripes on either sides of the jersey. The jersey also incorporates the roaring lion logo in the center of the shirt below the logo of the main sponsor Muthoot Group. The basic look of the jersey has remained same from the first season with no changes except for the sponsor placement. The kit manufacturer until 2014 was Reebok and from 2015, Australian Apparel and Sports Gear manufacturer Spartan manufactures kits for the team.


=== Theme song ===
The team's theme song is the "Whistle Podu" designed by Aravind-Shankar (duo of Aravind Murali and Jaishankar Iyer). Although the track was created only for YouTube in 2008, it gained popularity during the 2009 season and later became the team's theme song. The video of the song represents the street dance form of dappangutthu which is very popular among certain communities in Tamil Nadu. It is also a folk dance and music genre employed in Tamil cinema. The recordings of some of the Super Kings players whistling were used in the music video.


== Kit and sponsors ==
Muthoot Group is the current principal shirt sponsor, having signed a three-year deal in 2018. Telecom service provider Aircel was the previous shirt sponsor after they signed a three-year deal in 2008 which was then renewed in 2011 for ₹ 850 million, then the most expensive sponsorship deal in IPL. The team also has sponsorship deals with India Cements, Gulf Oil, Equitas Small Finance Bank, HIL, Nippon Paint, Parle Agro Frooti and Atria Convergence Technologies.


== Support and fan following ==
The Super Kings have a large fan following across India colloquially referred to as "Yellow Army". The team has an official fan club called the "Whistle Podu Army" which was founded in January 2016 after the team's suspension from IPL. In 2018 and 2019, there were reports of over 10,000 fans turning up to watch the team's practice sessions. After the team's home games were moved to Pune in 2018, the Super Kings management arranged a charter train between Chennai and Pune, as well as free accommodation, for more than 1,000 fans of the team.


=== Rivalries ===

The Super Kings have active rivalries with the Mumbai Indians and the Royal Challengers Bangalore. The Super Kings and Mumbai Indians have played against each other more number of times than any other two teams in the IPL. They are the two most successful IPL teams and often termed as "big spenders" at the players auction. The two sides have met each other in the final of the IPL four times, with Mumbai winning three of them and Chennai winning once. It is often referred to as the El Clasico of IPL.
The rivalry with Royal Challengers Bangalore stems from the Kaveri River water dispute between the states of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The rivalry is also called "Kaveri derby" and "South Indian derby". The Super Kings beat the Royal Challengers in the final of the 2011 IPL, the only meeting between the two teams at an IPL final.


== Brand value ==
Chennai Super Kings was adjudged by Brand Finance to be the most valuable brand at US$65 million after the completion of 2018 IPL. The Economic Times commissioned UK-based Brand Finance to carry out brand evaluation of the IPL and also each of the eight franchise teams (that was increased to 10 in 2011). Chennai Super Kings was rated as the "most valuable team" in the Indian Premier League in 2010–11, with a brand value of $100
million (approximately ₹ 2.24 billion). In February 2013, London based Brand Finance evaluated the top 150 most valuable teams in the world, in which Chennai Super Kings is placed in the 147th place valued at $46 million just behind the Mumbai Indians.


== Controversies ==
Until September 2008, BCCI regulation, Clause 6.2.4 stated that "No administrator could have, directly or indirectly, any commercial interest in the matches or events conducted by the board". However, N. Srinivasan, who was then the treasurer and vice-chairman of BCCI, became the de facto owner of the Chennai Super Kings since he was the Managing Director of India Cements. Former BCCI President A. C. Muthiah wrote to the BCCI regarding the violation of this clause in 2008 but the BCCI did not respond. In September 2008, Muthiah went to the Madras High Court to restrain BCCI from allowing Srinivasan to participate in the general body meeting where the election was to be held. However, the suit was dismissed by the High Court and the following day, Srinivasan was elected as the Secretary of BCCI. The clause was amended as "No administrator shall have, directly or indirectly, any commercial interest in any of the events of the BCCI, excluding IPL, Champions League and Twenty20". Muthiah then moved to the Supreme Court which gave a split verdict in April 2011. Later in August 2011, Muthiah filed another petition to stop Srinivasan from taking over as the BCCI President but the Supreme Court rejected the petition, and Srinivasan was elected the President of BCCI.In 2011, the owners of other teams were concerned about the possible rigging that could have taken place in the IPL auctions. Nita Ambani, the owner of Mumbai Indians questioned the changing order of players just before the auction began. Former IPL chairman Lalit Modi accused Srinivasan of arm-twisting him and rigging the 2009 IPL auction to ensure that English all-rounder Andrew Flintoff was bought by the Chennai Super Kings while it was refuted by Srinivasan.In May 2013, Gurunath Meiyappan, son-in-law of Srinivasan, was arrested by Mumbai Police on charges of placing bets on IPL matches. Meiyappan, who was the Team Principal of the Super Kings, was issued a summons by the Mumbai Police and on interrogation it was found that Meiyappan was in contact with bookies through actor Vindu Dara Singh. Following this, Srinivasan, on 2 June 2013, decided to step aside as BCCI President temporarily until the inquiry into the betting case completed. In February 2014, the three-member panel appointed by the Supreme Court of India enquired into the betting case, indicted Meiyappan for illegal betting during the 2013 IPL.On 25 March 2014, the Supreme Court of India issued an ultimatum to the BCCI demanding that Srinivasan either step down as president or be removed from his position. On 14 July 2015, the Supreme Court appointed RM Lodha committee, suspended the owners of Rajasthan Royals and Chennai Super Kings from the Indian Premier League for a period of two years. On 24 February 2016, the Supreme Court of India agreed to hear a plea for lifting the ban on the Chennai Super Kings.


== Seasons ==


== Current squad ==
Players with international caps are listed in bold.
 *  denotes a player who is currently unavailable for selection.
 *  denotes a player who is unavailable for rest of the season.


== Administration and support staff ==
Owner –  Chennai Super Kings Cricket Ltd
Head coach –  Stephen Fleming
Batting coach –  Michael Hussey
Bowling coach –  Lakshmipathy Balaji
Bowling consultant –  Eric Simons
Physical trainer –  Greg King
Physio –  Tommy Simsek
High Performance analyst –  Lakshmi Narayanan
Team manager –  Russell Radhakrishnan
Team doctor –  Madhu
Logistics manager –  Sanjay NatarajanRef


== Result summary ==


=== By season ===
 Last updated: 12 May 2019

1 Tied match - CSK lost in a tiebreaker on one-over-eliminator ("Super Over")


=== By opposition ===

 Last updated: 25 July 2020


=== Overall results in CLT20 ===

 Last updated: 19 December 2018


== See also ==
List of Chennai Super Kings records


== References ==


== External links ==
Official Chennai Super Kings Website
Chennai Super Kings at IPL official siteThe Delhi Capitals are a franchise cricket team that represents the city of Delhi in the Indian Premier League (IPL). Founded in 2008 as the Delhi Daredevils, the franchise is jointly owned by the GMR Group and the JSW Group. The team's home ground is Arun Jaitley Stadium, located in New Delhi.
The Delhi Capitals are the only current team to have never appeared in an IPL final and qualified for the IPL playoffs in 2019 for the first time in seven years. The leading run-scorer for the Capitals is Virender Sehwag, while the leading wicket-taker is Amit Mishra.


== Franchise history ==
The IPL is a cricket league organised by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and backed by the International Cricket Council (ICC). The inaugural tournament was held in April–June 2008, in which BCCI finalised a list of eight teams who participated in the tournament. The teams represented eight different cities in India, including Delhi. The teams were put up for auction in Mumbai on 20 February 2008, and the Delhi team was bought by the property development company GMR Group for US$84 million.In March 2018, GMR sold a 50% stake in the Delhi Daredevils to JSW Sports for ₹550 crore (US$77 million).In December 2018, the team changed its name from the Delhi Daredevils to the Delhi Capitals. Speaking to the rationale behind changing the team's name, co-owner and chairman Parth Jindal said, "Delhi is the power centre of the country, it is the capital, therefore the name Delhi Capitals." Co-owner Kiran Kumar Grandhi said, "The new name symbolizes Delhi’s identity and just like the city, we are aiming to be the centre of all action going forward."


== 2008 IPL season ==

During the inaugural edition of the IPL, the Delhi Daredevils won their initial two matches against the Rajasthan Royals and the Deccan Chargers. Then, after losing a match to the Kings XI Punjab, the team won their next two matches against the Royal Challengers Bangalore and the Chennai Super Kings.
However, the Delhi Daredevils lost in four straight matches, breaking the streak with a win against the Deccan Chargers. After another loss against the Kings XI Punjab, they recovered and won three matches to finish in the final four of the league.
The Delhi Daredevils lost to eventual champions, the Rajasthan Royals, in the semi-final.


== 2009 IPL season ==

The Daredevils dominated for much of the 2009 IPL season under the captaincy of former Indian opener and Delhi-native, Gautam Gambhir, finishing at the top of the table. The likes of former Indian opener and triple-Centurion Sehwag and Gambhir had both developed since the prior season. They set up many large totals for the Daredevils, with South African power hitter and part-time Keeper AB de Villiers hitting one of only two centuries in the 2009 IPL (the other was made by the young Indian batsman Manish Pandey) at a match in South Africa. The bowling team, which was composed mainly of New Zealander spin pro Daniel Vettori, India senior spinner Amit Mishra, Pradeep Sangwan, and former India fast bowler Ashish Nehra, was bolstered by the off-season signing of Australian Dirk Nannes, which created a strong bowling line-up. The batting of the Daredevils featured Sehwag, Gambhir, power hitter Dilshan, AB de Villiers, and Manoj Tiwari. The Daredevils consisted of new and then uncapped players like Australia Captain Aaron Finch and Australia all-rounder Glenn Maxwell, who went on to become successful in T20 circuits.
However, despite finishing at the top of the points table during the regular season, the Daredevils crumbled in the semi-final after Deccan Chargers' captain Adam Gilchrist hit the then fastest fifty in IPL history (in just 17 balls). Nannes in particular, who was again picked over Aussie pacer Glenn McGrath, was punished by Gilchrist, and later by Aussie opening all-rounder Andrew Symonds. The semi-final meant Delhi did not contest the final of the 2009 IPL season, despite having the best record in the league stages. However, Delhi managed to qualify for the now-defunct 2009 Champions League Twenty20 as a result of their performance in the group stage.


== 2012 IPL season ==

Due to the disbanding of the Kochi Tuskers Kerala, each team played the remaining eight teams twice, once at home and once away. Therefore, each team played an extended season of 16 matches.
In the 2012 IPL season a new side of the Delhi Daredevils was seen after a poor 2011 season where they finished last. They came back strongly, having purchased players such as Afro-English batting great Kevin Pietersen, Sri Lanka Batsman Mahela Jayawardene, and Kiwi Batsman Ross Taylor. They stood first in the Pool Table with the Kolkata Knight Riders at second place, the Mumbai Indians coming third, and the defending champions the Chennai Super Kings securing the fourth spot, consequently also qualifying for the Champions League Twenty20 in 2012 held in South Africa.
Australian pace bowler Glenn McGrath expressed disappointment over not being picked to play any match during the whole season, and stopped playing for Delhi.Former Sri Lankan Skipper Mahela Jayawardane was appointed as the new captain of the Delhi Daredevils after Indian opener Virender Sehwag stepped down from captaincy during the 2012 season of the Champions League Twenty20.


== 2013 IPL season ==

Delhi Daredevils lost their first six matches of IPL 2013 and won their first match in their seventh game against the Mumbai Indians. Virender Sehwag and Mahela Jayawardene's partnership led to a win against the Mumbai Indians, in which they scored 161 runs. Sehwag was the "Man of the Match" for his innings of 95* off 57 balls. After this match, they faced the Kings XI Punjab and lost again. But in their ninth match of the season against the Pune Warriors India they won, putting them in eighth place in the points table. They defeated defending champions the Kolkata Knight Riders in their tenth Match by seven wickets but failed to advance to seventh place due to their net run-rate. In their next match against the Sunrisers Hyderabad, the Delhi Daredevils were bowled out for just 80 runs, giving the Sunrisers a win. In their match against the Rajasthan Royals, they scored 154 runs thanks to recruit Ben Rohrer's half-century. However, that effort was in vain as the Rajasthan Royals chased the total down with the loss of only one wicket. This loss for the Daredevils officially eliminated them from the 2013 season.
In their next match against the Royal Challengers Bangalore, Delhi managed to contain the Royal Challengers who were 106 in 16.0 overs, but Bangalore scored 77 in their last four overs and reached a total of 183, thanks to a 99 by RCB Skipper Virat Kohli. The Daredevils lost the match by just four runs. The team next played the Chennai Super Kings who batted first and posted 168 runs. Delhi failed to gain momentum throughout the match and eventually lost by 33 runs. The following match was against the Kings XI Punjab who defeated them again, this time by seven runs, as they failed to chase down 172 runs. Their final game was against the Pune Warriors India. Delhi bowled first and the Pune Warriors posted a total of 171 runs. In the second innings, Delhi maintained the required run rate but began losing quick wickets after the tenth over. They could not chase the target and lost by 38 runs finishing last in the league table. Despite seeing a forgettable season, a few big names were added to the support staff as the season progressed. The legendary West Indies batsman Sir Vivian Richards was named as their new brand ambassador, former England spinner Jeremy Snape was added to the support staff, and renowned former Pakistan spinner Mushtaq Ahmed was named as their new spin bowling coach.


== 2014 IPL season ==

Ahead of the IPL 2014 auction, on 10 January 2014, the Delhi Daredevils announced that they would not retain any players from their current squad for season seven. With no players retained, the team had the most "right-to-match" cards among all the franchises at the auction—three. They also had Rs 600 million (approx US$9.6) to spend at the auction.
The Delhi Daredevils experienced another poor season in 2014. They lost their first match, against the Royal Challengers Bangalore, however, they won their next match against defending champions the Kolkata Knight Riders. This was followed by a loss against the two-time champions the Chennai Super Kings and a close match which resulted in a loss against the Sunrisers Hyderabad. The Delhi Daredevils won their next match against the Mumbai Indians, having restricted them to 125. Later, when the tournament shifted from the makeshift venue in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to India, Delhi lost their next nine matches. The Delhi Daredevils won only two out of their fourteen matches, both of which took place in the adopted venue in the UAE. Despite their poor performance, South Africa all-rounder JP Duminy, the team captain scored 410 runs from fourteen matches at an average of 51.25 and was the tournament's eighth highest run-scorer. The Delhi Daredevils once again finished last.


== 2015 IPL season ==

The team finished seventh in the 2015 edition of the IPL. They received fierce criticism from the Delhi fans due to their string of poor performances in the previous two years.


== 2016 IPL season ==

The Delhi Daredevils released many of their players, including the previous year's most expensive purchase, all-rounder Yuvraj Singh, whom they had bought for ₹16 crores. The Daredevils also released former Sri Lankan skipper and all-rounder Angelo Mathews, who was bought for ₹7.5 crore. New additions to the team included uncapped all-rounder Pawan Negi, who was bought for ₹8.5 crore, thereby becoming the most expensive Indian player in the IPL auction of 2016. Uncapped Indian batsman, Sanju Samson and Karun Nair, who previously played for the Rajasthan Royals, were also bought for hefty amounts. South African all-rounder Chris Morris was bought for ₹7 crore. English keeper Sam Billings and Australian Joel Paris also joined the Delhi squad. The team purchased three promising India U-19 players—local keeper Rishabh Pant, Rajasthan's pacer Khaleel Ahmed and Mahipal Lomror. After the Daredevils ended their association with South African batter Gary Kirsten, they appointed Paddy Upton as their head coach. The Indian batter and head coach of India U-19, Rahul Dravid was appointed the Daredevils' batting mentor. Former Indian pacer Zaheer Khan was appointed as the new captain of the Delhi Daredevils in the 2016 IPL season. Relative to their performance in the previous three seasons, the Delhi Daredevils improved the way they played. South African all-rounder Chris Morris got the fastest 50 (17 balls) of the tournament and was also effective in the bowling department. South African wicket-keeper Quinton de Kock was among the leading run-scorers in the season. After losing their first match against two-time champions the Kolkata Knight Riders, the Daredevils went on to dominate the Kings XI Punjab, the Royal Challengers Bangalore, defending champions the Mumbai Indians, the Kolkata Knight Riders in the second leg, and newcomers the Gujarat Lions. They won five of their first seven matches, gaining ten points. They lost their second match against newcomers the Gujarat Lions by just one run. The Daredevils were the favourites to qualify for the playoffs; however, they finished in sixth with fourteen points in fourteen games.


== 2017 IPL season ==

Delhi lost South Africans De Kock and Duminy before the tournament, placing dependence on a young batting line-up and a bowling line-up of former Indian pacer Zaheer Khan, Indian pacer Mohammed Shami, South African all-rounder Chris Morris, Aussie bowling all-rounder Pat Cummins, South African young pacer Kagiso Rabada, Indian spinner Amit Mishra, young spinner Shahbaz Nadeem, Jayant Yadav and Ben Hilfenhaus. They lost to runner-ups RCB in the first game and won by big margins against RPS and KXIP. After this, they lost five consecutive games. However, they bounced back by chasing 189 and 214 against defending champions SRH and GL respectively. Keralite wicket-keeper Sanju Samson got the first century of the season. Young wicket-keeper and local boy Rishabh Pant made 97 against GL. But the Delhi Daredevils lost to then two-time champions MI by a margin of 146 runs, which was the highest win by runs in IPL history. During the middle of the tournament, captain and former Indian pacer Zaheer Khan was down with an injury to his hamstring which caused him to miss three matches, and young Indian batsman Karun Nair was appointed as stand-in captain.
The Delhi Daredevils ended up at sixth position again with six wins (+12 points) and eight losses for the season.


== 2018 IPL season ==


== 2019 IPL season ==

The Delhi Capitals retained fourteen players and traded their former player and India Opener Shikhar Dhawan from the Sunrisers Hyderabad. This was done by trading off the young all-rounder Vijay Shankar, and Abhishek Sharma and spinner Shahbaz Nadeem for the 12th season of the IPL. Retained players for the twelfth IPL season were: captain and Indian batsman Shreyas Iyer, Indian wicket-keeper and left-handed batsman Rishabh Pant, young Indian batsman Prithvi Shaw, Indian spinner Amit Mishra, young pacer Avesh Khan, uncapped bowler and injured Harshal Patel, uncapped bowling all-rounder Rahul Tewatia, Jayant Yadav, Manjot Kalra, New Zealand opener Colin Munro, New Zealand pacer Trent Boult, South African all-rounder Chris Morris, young South African pacer Kagiso Rabada and young Nepalese spinner Sandeep Lamichhane.
On the IPL auction day, 18 December 2018, DC filled up their 10 available player slots (seven Indian slots and three overseas slots) with: South African batsman Colin Ingram, Indian all-rounder Axar Patel, Indian all-rounder Hanuma Vihari, Sherfane Rutherford, Indian pacer Ishant Sharma, West Indian pacer Keemo Paul, and uncapped Indian cricketers Jalaj Saxena, Ankush Bains, Nathu Singh and Bandaru Ayyappa.
Delhi Capitals also brought the former Indian captain Sourav Ganguly as their official advisor and later traded Jayant Yadav to the Mumbai Indians after the IPL 2019 auction.
The Capitals began their campaign with a 37 run victory over three-time champions Mumbai. The Capitals entered the playoffs after seven years, and they won their first playoffs match against the Sunrisers Hyderabad by two wickets. They lost the second match against the Chennai Super Kings by six wickets and ended up as second runners up in the playoffs.


== 2020 IPL season ==
Delhi Capitals released Hanuma Vihari, Jalaj Saxena, Manjot Kalra, Ankush Bains, Nathu Singh, Bandaru Ayappa, Chris Morris, Colin Ingram, and Colin Munro from their 2020 roster. They have added Jason Roy, Chris Woakes, Alex Carey, Shimron Hetmyer, Mohit Sharma, Tushar Deshpande, Marcus Stoinis, and Lalit Yadav for their 2020 roster during the IPL Auction. Chris Woakes, however pulled out of the tournament and was replaced by South African fast bowler Anrich Nortje.


== Home ground ==
The Delhi Capitals play their home matches in the Arun Jaitley Stadium located in New Delhi. They also have the modern Shaheed Veer Narayan Singh International Stadium, Raipur as their second home ground.


== Team anthems ==
Bollywood playback singer Kailash Kher was the artist for the team's anthem—"Khel Front Foot Pe" ("Play on the front foot") or "play aggressively".
The Delhi Daredevils launched their new anthem "Munday Dilli Ke" ("The Lads from Delhi") on 5 March 2012 on YouTube.Their anthem for the 2016 season of IPL, titled "Dhuandaar Dilli" was released on YouTube, sung by Sukhwinder Singh. In 2018, they released yet another theme song, titled "DilDilliHaiDhadkega". The theme song for the 2019 season for the rechristened franchise the Delhi Capitals was "Roar Machaa".


== Players ==

Former India Opener and Delhi local, Virender Sehwag was accorded the icon player status in the Delhi Daredevils team and was also the captain of the side during the first two seasons. However, he resigned and passed on the leadership to Gautam Gambhir for the 2010 season. But after Gambhir left the team for the Kolkata Knight Riders in the fourth edition, Sehwag was once again given the duty to captain the team. Since the start of the IPL in 2008, many international players such as Australian Glenn McGrath, South African batsman and part-time keeper AB de Villiers, Sri Lanka player Tillakaratne Dilshan, Australia opener and former vice-captain David Warner, Andrew McDonald, New Zealand spinner Daniel Vettori, Farveez Maharoof, Dirk Nannes and Aussie opener Aaron Finch have donned the cap for the Daredevils. The team included Indian players like Tamil Nadu Middle-order batsman and keeper Dinesh Karthik and Yo Mahesh.
In 2009, Mohammad Asif and Shoaib Malik left due to the ban on Pakistani players and Asif's positive drug test. Aussie opener David Warner, Andrew McDonald, English Opener Paul Collingwood and Owais Shah were the new signings. Fast bowler Ashish Nehra came in from Mumbai Indians as a trade-off for Indian Opener Shikhar Dhawan. For IPL 2010, Australian all-rounder Moises Henriques came in from the Kolkata Knight Riders in exchange for Manoj Tiwary and Owais Shah. Wayne Parnell was purchased at the auction for US$610,000.
In 2012, they bought Sri Lankan Mahela Jayawardene, Jamaican all-rounder Andre Russell, Doug Bracewell, Morne Morkel and English batsman Kevin Pietersen. The Daredevils also signed uncapped Indian all-rounder Pawan Negi, batsmen Manpreet Juneja and Kuldeep Rawal ahead of the 2012 season. The Daredevils appointed Mahela Jayawardene as vice-captain for 2012. On 29 February 2012, the Daredevils signed Kiwi Batsman Ross Taylor from the inaugural Champions Rajasthan Royals in a trade for an undisclosed amount.


== Seasons ==
The Daredevils played in the Champions League Twenty20 twice, in 2009 and 2012. While they were eliminated in the group stage in the former, they made the semifinals in the latter.


== Current squad ==
Players with international caps are listed in bold.
 *  denotes a player who is currently unavailable for selection.
 *  denotes a player who is unavailable for rest of the season.


== Administration and support staff ==


== Kit manufacturers and sponsors ==


== Statistics ==


=== Win–loss record ===
 Last updated: 25 July 2020


=== Head to head in IPL ===
 Last updated: 25 July 2020


=== Overall results in CLT20 ===


=== Head to head in CLT20 ===


== References ==


== External links ==
IPL team Delhi capitals web page on official IPL T20 website - IPLT20.com
The Official Delhi Capitals SiteThe 2020 Indian Premier League, also known as IPL 13, and branded as Dream11 IPL 2020 for sponsorship reasons, is scheduled to be the thirteenth season of the IPL, a professional Twenty20 cricket league established by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) in 2007.
The tournament was originally scheduled to commence on 29 March 2020, but was suspended until 15 April due to the global coronavirus pandemic. After Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on 14 April that the lockdown in India would last until at least 3 May 2020, the BCCI suspended the tournament indefinitely. On 2 August 2020, it was announced that the tournament would be played between 19 September and 10 November 2020 in the United Arab Emirates. On 10 August 2020, the Indian government gave its permission for the tournament to take place in the UAE.On 4 August 2020, VIVO pulled out as the title sponsor of the Indian Premier League (IPL) for this year's edition.On 18 August, Fantasy cricket league platform Dream11 has been named title sponsors rights with the bid of ₹222 crore for IPL 2020.


== Background ==
The BCCI released the fixture details on 18 February 2020. The league stage was scheduled to start on 29 March 2020, with the opening match between Mumbai Indians and Chennai Super Kings, the finalists of the previous season, at Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai. However, due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced on 12 March that IPL matches can be held in the state only if they are played in empty stadiums. Deputy Chief Minister of Delhi Manish Sisodia declared that no IPL matches will be held in Delhi.On 13 March, the BCCI suspended the tournament until 15 April, in view of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. The decision regarding the postponement was reached by the Governing Council after a meeting with the owners of all eight franchise teams. On 9 April, with India under a nationwide lockdown, a BCCI official told CNBC TV18 that the Board was considering hosting the tournament in July or during the winter, possibly behind closed doors. On 14 April 2020, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the lockdown in India would last until at least 3 May 2020, with the tournament postponed further. The following day, the BCCI suspended the tournament indefinitely due to the pandemic.On 17 April 2020, Sri Lanka Cricket offered to host the tournament. On 17 May 2020, the Indian government relaxed nation-wide restrictions on sports events, allowing events to take place behind closed doors. On 24 May, Indian sports minister Kiren Rijiju stated that the decision on whether or not to allow the tournament to be conducted in 2020 will be made by the Indian government based on "the situation of the pandemic". News reports on 17 July suggested that the BCCI was considering hosting the tournament in the United Arab Emirates between the tentative dates of 26 September and 7 November.After the International Cricket Council (ICC) postponed the 2020 edition of the Men's T20 World Cup, the BCCI sought Government of India's permission to move the tournament to the UAE. On 24 July 2020, IPL Governing Council chairman Brijesh Patel said that the tournament would be played in the UAE between 19 September and 10 November, should it get the nod from Government of India. The official announcement is yet to be made by the BCCI. Patel added that the decision to allow spectators at the three venues–Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Sharjah–will be taken by the Government of the United Arab Emirates.


== Personnel changes ==

Kings XI Punjab's captain Ravichandran Ashwin was transferred to Delhi Capitals in November 2019. Ajinkya Rahane, Trent Boult and Mayank Markande got salary raises during pre-auction trades. The released players were announced on 15 November 2019. Robin Uthappa, Yuvraj Singh and Chris Lynn were the most prominent names among the released players. Jaydev Unadkat, the costliest Indian player in 2019 auction, was also released. There were 12 transfers between teams during the 2020 transfer window.The players auction for the 2020 season was held on 19 December 2019 in Kolkata. Pat Cummins was the most expensive player, purchased by the Kolkata Knight Riders for ₹15.5 crore (US$2.2 million). The most expensive Indian player sold was Piyush Chawla for ₹6.75 crore (US$950,000) to Chennai Super Kings. On 18 August, Delhi Capitals sign Anrich Nortje to replace Chris Woakes.


== Venues ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Series home at ESPN CricinfoThe 2019 season of the Indian Premier League, also known as IPL 12, was the twelfth season of the IPL, a professional Twenty20 cricket league established by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) in 2007. At one point other countries were considered to host the tournament, due to the Indian general elections but eventually the tournament was played entirely in India with the season commencing on 23 March.India's opening match at the 2019 Cricket World Cup was postponed from 2 to 5 June as the BCCI were directed to maintain a mandatory 15-day gap between the conclusion of IPL and India's subsequent international fixture as per Lodha Committee's recommendation.Delhi Daredevils were renamed as the Delhi Capitals, the franchise announced on 4 December 2018, and also released a new logo. Chennai Super Kings were the defending champions.Mumbai Indians defeated the Chennai Super Kings by 1 run to win the final for their fourth title. David Warner won the Orange Cap for the leading run-scorer of the tournament with 692 runs. Imran Tahir, of Chennai Super Kings, was awarded the Purple Cap for finishing as the leading wicket-taker of the tournament with 26 wickets. Andre Russell of Kolkata Knight Riders was named the Most Valuable Player, and Shubman Gill also of Kolkata Knight Riders was named the Emerging Player of the Tournament.


== Personnel changes ==

The transfers and the retention lists for the season were announced in November 2018. Gautam Gambhir, Yuvraj Singh and Glenn Maxwell were the prominent names among the players being released. Jaydev Unadkat, the costliest Indian player in 2018 auction, was also released. The player auction was held on 18 December 2018 at Jaipur. Jaydev Unadkat and uncapped Varun Chakravarthy were the most expensive player at Rs 8.4 crore. Sam Curran was the most expensive foreign player at Rs 7.2 crore. Prominent players like Cheteshwar Pujara, Brendon McCullum, Mushfiqur Rahim and Alex Hales remained unsold.


== Venues ==


== Teams and standings ==


=== League table ===
The four top ranked teams qualify for the playoffs
     advanced to Qualifier 1
     advanced to the Eliminator


=== Match summary ===


== League stage ==

The full schedule of the 2019 season was published on the IPL website.


=== Matches ===


== Playoffs ==


=== Preliminary ===
Qualifier 1
Eliminator
Qualifier 2


=== Final ===


== Statistics ==


=== Most runs ===
     David Warner of Sunrisers Hyderabad received the Orange Cap.


=== Most wickets ===
     Imran Tahir of Chennai Super Kings received the Purple Cap.


=== End of the season awards ===
Source: 


== See also ==
2019 Women's T20 Challenge


== References ==


== External links ==
Series home at ESPN CricinfoThe 2018 season of the Indian Premier League, also known as IPL 11, was the eleventh season of the IPL, a professional Twenty20 cricket league established by the BCCI in 2007. The season, which was held from 7 April to 27 May, saw the return of the Chennai Super Kings and the Rajasthan Royals after serving two years of suspension for the involvement of their respective owners in the 2013 IPL betting case. Star Sports purchased the media rights at ₹16,347.5 crore ($2.55 billion) for five years starting from 2018.Chennai Super Kings won by 8 wickets against Sunrisers Hyderabad in the final to win their third title. Sunrisers Hyderabad captain Kane Williamson won the Orange Cap for the leading run-scorer of the tournament with 735 runs. Andrew Tye, of Kings XI Punjab, was awarded the Purple Cap for finishing as the leading wicket-taker of the tournament with 24 wickets. Sunil Narine of Kolkata Knight Riders was named Most Valuable Player, also known as Man of the Series, while Rishabh Pant of Delhi Daredevils was named the Emerging Player of the Tournament.


== Background ==
This was the first season of the IPL to use DRS. IPL Fanpark, an initiative where matches are hosted in stadia on a large screen has been planned to be held across 36 cities in 19 states across the India. This season also will introduce mid-season transfers. The transfer window will be a short five-day transfer window applicable only for uncapped players who have played not more than two matches at the halfway mark of the tournament.


=== Format ===
Eight teams are scheduled to play in 2018. The tournament involves each team playing every other team twice in a home-and-away, double round-robin format. At the conclusion of the double round-robin league, the top four teams on the basis of aggregate points qualify for the playoffs. In this stage, the top two teams compete with each other (in a match titled "Qualifier 1"), as do the remaining two teams (in a match titled "Eliminator"). While the winner of Qualifier 1 directly qualifies for the final match, the losing team gets another chance to qualify for the final match by playing the winning team of the Eliminator match; this match is titled Qualifier 2. The winner of this subsequent Qualifier 2 match moves onto the final match. The team that wins the final match is crowned the Indian Premier League winners. The schedule for the tournament was published on 14 February 2018.


=== Broadcast ===
Star Sports won the global media rights at ₹16,347.5 crore ($2.55 billion) for five years starting from 2018. In India, the tournament will be broadcast on Star Network channels in six languages (English, Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Bengali). For the first time, IPL would also be broadcast on public broadcaster Doordarshan. The television rights for rest of the world were won by Willow TV for US and Canada, Sky Sports for UK, Fox Sports for Australia, Sky Sport for New Zealand, SuperSport for sub Saharan Africa, beIN Sports for Middle-East and North America, Flow TV for Caribbean, Geo Super for Pakistan, Channel 9 for Bangladesh and Lemar TV for Afghanistan. The radio rights were won by Cricket Radio globally (except Indian subcontinent), 89.1 Radio 4 FM and Gold 101.3 FM for US and Talksport for UK. Star's digital platform Hotstar held the digital rights for India, US and Canada. The digital rights for rest of the world were won by Sky Sports for UK, Fox Sports for Australia, Sky Sport for New Zealand, SuperSport for sub Saharan Africa, beIN Sports for Middle-East and North America, Flow TV for Caribbean, Geo Super for Pakistan, Channel 9 for Bangladesh and YuppTV for Australia, Europe, SE Asia & South America. Star India also announced its plan to broadcast IPL in Virtual Reality.


== Venues ==
Per the original schedule, all teams except for Kings XI Punjab, would play their home games at their traditional home venues. Kings XI were scheduled to play three of their home games in Indore and the other four games in Mohali. The schedule was later changed due to logistical issues owing to the temporary closure of Chandigarh Airport, and as a result, Kings XI would play three of their home games in Mohali and the other four games in Indore making an exception to the rule of playing at least four home matches at their designated home venue. The IPL matches in Chennai were threatened due to the Kaveri water dispute protests. The Madras High Court issued a notice to BCCI after a PIL was filed seeking a stay on the IPL matches in Chennai. On 11 April that Chennai's six remaining home matches would be held in Pune instead due to security concerns resulting from the protests.Ten venues were selected to host the matches. The opening match and the final will be played at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai. The venues for the two playoffs were not announced initially due to the norm of allotting the Eliminator and second qualifier to the home stadium of last season's runner-up, and the fact that the 2017 runner-up, Rising Pune Supergiant were no longer a part of the IPL. Later, both playoffs were allotted to Pune but after the venue of Chennai Super Kings was moved there, the matches were shifted to Kolkata.


== Personnel changes ==

The IPL Governing Council announced that each IPL franchise could retain a maximum of five players from their respective current squads. Of the five players, a franchise could retain a maximum of three players through retention in lead up to the auction, and a maximum of three players through right-to-match card during the auction. The other restrictions on player retention were: a maximum of three capped Indian players could be retained, and only two overseas players and two uncapped Indian players could be retained. The salary cap for each team for the 2018 season was increased from ₹66 crore to ₹80 crore (approximately $12.4 million). A franchise was allowed to spend only ₹33 crore on retentions ahead of the 2018 IPL auction, leaving it at least ₹47 crore to spend at the auction.IPL teams were asked to submit their retention list by 4 January. For the first time in IPL history, the player retention event was broadcast live on Star Sports. The IPL auction was held on 27 and 28 January at Bangalore a day after the final of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy.
169 players (104 Indians and 56 Overseas) were sold at auction. Ben Stokes fetched the highest bid of ₹12.5 crore (US$1.95 million). Jaydev Unadkat was the most costly Indian player at ₹11.5 crore (US$1.80 million). Among uncapped players Krunal Pandya was most expensive at ₹8.8 crore(US$1.38 million). Many prominent players such as Lasith Malinga, Dale Steyn, Ishant Sharma, Hashim Amla , Martin Guptill and Joe Root remain unsold.


== Opening ceremony ==
The season had a single opening ceremony, unlike 2017 IPL, before the first match on 7 April. The ceremony included performances by Varun Dhawan, Prabhu Deva, Mika Singh, Tamannaah Bhatia, Jacqueline Fernandez and Hrithik Roshan.


== Teams and standings ==


=== League table ===
The four top ranked teams qualify for the playoffs
     advanced to Qualifier 1
     advanced to the Eliminator


=== League progression ===


=== Match summary ===


== League stage ==


=== Match results ===


== Playoffs ==


=== Preliminary ===
Qualifier 1
Eliminator
Qualifier 2


=== Final ===


== Statistics ==


=== Most Runs ===
     Kane Williamson of Sunrisers Hyderabad received the Orange Cap.
Source: ESPNcricinfo


=== Most wickets ===
     Andrew Tye of Kings XI Punjab received the Purple Cap.
Source: ESPNcricinfo


=== Special awards ===
Source:


== See also ==
2018 Women's T20 Challenge
List of current Indian Premier League team rosters
List of Indian Premier League records and statistics


== References ==


== External links ==
Series home on ESPN CricinfoThe 2017 season of the Indian Premier League, also known as IPL 10  and branded as Vivo IPL 2017, was the tenth edition of the IPL, a professional Twenty20 cricket league established by the BCCI in 2007. The tournament featured the eight teams that played in the previous season. The 2017 season started on 5 April 2017 and finished on 21 May 2017, with Hyderabad hosting the opening match and the final. Mumbai Indians won by 1 run against Rising Pune Supergiant in the final, winning their third title making them the first team to achieve the milestone.
Sunrisers Hyderabad captain David Warner won the Orange Cap for the leading run-scorer of the tournament with 641 runs. Bhuvneshwar Kumar, also of Sunrisers Hyderabad, was awarded the Purple Cap for finishing as the leading wicket-taker of the tournament with 26 wickets. Rising Pune Supergiant's Ben Stokes was named the Most Valuable Player, while Basil Thampi of Gujarat Lions was named the Emerging Player of the Tournament.


== Format ==
Eight teams were contesting the season. The schedule for the tournament was published on 15 February 2017. The league stage, consisting of 56 matches, took place between 5 April and 14 May 2017. The top four teams qualified for the play-offs, with the final held in Hyderabad on 21 May.


== Venues ==
Ten venues were selected to host the matches. The opening match and the final were played at the Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket Stadium in Hyderabad.


== Personnel changes ==

The retention lists for the season were announced in December 2016. On 3 February, the BCCI announced that the player auction would be held on 20 February 2017 in Bangalore with a total of 799 players registered for it. On 14 February, the IPL Desk released a list of 351 players. Out of the 351 players shortlisted, 66 players were sold at the 2017 IPL Auction.


== Opening ceremonies ==
Unlike the previous IPL seasons each of which had a single opening ceremony, the 2017 season featured opening ceremonies at each venue before the start of the first match at the venue. The ceremonies included performances by Amy Jackson (at Hyderabad); Shalmali Kholgade and Riteish Deshmukh (at Pune); Bhoomi Trivedi, Sachin-Jigar and Tiger Shroff (at Rajkot); Harshdeep Kaur and Disha Patani (at Indore); Benny Dayal and Kriti Sanon (at Bangalore); Sushant Singh Rajput and Malaika Arora (at Mumbai); Shillong Chamber Choir, Monali Thakur and Shraddha Kapoor (at Kolkata); Raftaar, Yami Gautam and Guru Randhawa (at Delhi).


== Teams and standings ==
The four top ranked teams qualified for the playoffs
     advanced to Qualifier 1
     advanced to the EliminatorSource: ESPNcricinfo


=== League progression ===


== League stage ==


=== Match results ===


== Playoffs ==


=== Preliminary ===
Qualifier 1
Eliminator
Qualifier 2


=== Final ===


== Statistics ==


=== Most runs ===
     David Warner of Sunrisers Hyderabad received the Orange Cap.
Source: Cricinfo


=== Most wickets ===
     Bhuvneshwar Kumar of Sunrisers Hyderabad received the Purple Cap.
Source: Cricinfo


=== 2017 Cricinfo IPL XI ===
David Warner
Gautam Gambhir
Robin Uthappa
Steve Smith (C)
Rishabh Pant (WK)
Ben Stokes
Krunal Pandya
Bhuvneshwar Kumar
Rashid Khan
Jasprit Bumrah
Jaydev Unadkat


=== 2017 Cricbuzz IPL XI ===
David Warner (C)
Hashim Amla
Gautam Gambhir
Suresh Raina
Ben Stokes
Dinesh Karthik (WK)
Krunal Pandya
Nathan Coulter-Nile
Bhuvneshwar Kumar
Jasprit Bumrah
Yuzvendra Chahal


=== Special awards ===
Source:


== See also ==
List of current Indian Premier League team rosters
List of Indian Premier League records and statistics


== References ==


== External links ==
Series home on ESPN CricinfoThe 2016 season of the Indian Premier League, also known as IPL 9, and branded as Vivo IPL 2016 for sponsorship reasons, was the ninth season of the IPL, a professional Twenty20 cricket league established by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) in 2007. The season began on 9 April 2016, and concluded on 29 May 2016 with the playing of the finals match between Royal Challengers Bangalore and Sunrisers Hyderabad at M. Chinnaswamy Stadium in Bangalore.
The 2016 season was the first IPL season to use LED stumps. Following the suspension of Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals for two years over a spot-fixing and betting scandal, the IPL allocated spots for two new franchises to take their place. The process would result in the establishment of the Gujarat Lions and Rising Pune Supergiants in 2016.
The championship was won by Sunrisers Hyderabad, marking the franchise's first IPL title, with Ben Cutting declared the man of the match in the final. Virat Kohli of Royal Challengers Bangalore was named the most valuable player of the tournament, and Mustafizur Rahman of Sunrisers Hyderabad was named the emerging player of the season. Virat Kohli of Royal Challengers Bangalore was the tournament's leading run-scorer with 973 runs and Bhuvneshwar Kumar of Sunrisers Hyderabad was the leading wicket-taker of the tournament with 23 wickets.


== Format ==
Eight teams contested the season. Two teams, Rising Pune Supergiants and Gujarat Lions, based in Pune and Rajkot were new to the tournament, replacing the Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals franchises which had been suspended until 2017.
The schedule for the tournament was published on 10 March 2016. The league stage, consisting of 56 matches, took place between 9 April and 22 May 2016. The top four teams qualified for the play-off stage, with the final being held in Bangalore on 29 May.


== Background ==
On 14 July 2015, the RM Lodha committee suspended the owners of the Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals franchises for a period of two years on charges of spot-fixing and betting during the 2013 IPL season. This meant that the two teams could not play in the 2016 and 2017 IPL seasons. The Board of Control of Cricket in India (BCCI) confirmed that two new teams will replace them for the next two seasons of the IPL.
In October 2015, PepsiCo withdrew as the title sponsor of the IPL, terminating a five-year deal which was to end in 2017. Chinese smartphone manufacturer Vivo was awarded the title sponsorship for the 2016 and 2017 seasons.In November 2015, the BCCI shortlisted nine cities for the new franchises to be based in, leaving out Jaipur (home of Rajasthan Royals) and Kochi (home of the now defunct Kochi Tuskers Kerala) for unknown reasons. The nine cities shortlisted were: Chennai, Cuttack, Dharamshala, Indore, Nagpur, Pune, Rajkot, Ranchi and Visakhapatnam. The new franchises were allocated using a reverse auction process, with companies which bid the lowest share of the central revenue pool becoming the owners of the new teams. On 3 December, it was reported that twelve companies collected tender documents for the bidding process.On 8 December 2015, it was announced that New Rising, a company led by Sanjiv Goenka, and Intex Technologies had won the bidding rights to the two new teams. New Rising decided to have their team based in Pune while Intex chose Rajkot as the home of its team. The two franchises picked five players each from the squads of Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals at a player draft on 15 December 2015. Each franchise was allocated a purse of ₹660 million to buy the players for their squad at the draft and players auction.


=== Maharashtra water crisis ===
On 6 April 2016, amid a severe drought situation in the state of Maharashtra, in which three venues (Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur) were supposed to host a total of 20 IPL matches in the 2016 season, the Bombay High Court questioned the "criminal wastage" of water being supplied to the three stadiums in a response to a petition from the Lok Satta Movement NGO. The drought was described as one of the "worst-ever droughts" to affect the state and was believed to be one of the worst droughts in 100 years. An estimated 6 million litres (6 million litres) of water were to be used at the three venues to maintain the pitches, with 4 million litres being used at the Wankhede Stadium, the site of eight matches. The High Court filed a public interest litigation and suggested shifting matches to "some other state where water is in abundance." The High Court questioned the BCCI about whether "people are more important or your IPL matches". The BCCI argued that the water being used at the venues was tanker water and not drinkable.On 8 April, the Chief Minister of Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis declared that potable water will not be supplied to the venues and added "even if IPL matches are shifted, we have no problem." On 9 April, hours before the season's opening match, the Mumbai Cricket Association claimed that the water being used at the Wankhede Stadium was bought from private operators and not Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation.On 13 April, the Bombay High Court ruled that all the matches to be held in the state in May must be moved to venues outside of Maharashtra. A total of 13 matches were scheduled to be hosted by the three venues in Maharashtra in the month of May, including two playoff matches in Pune and the final in Mumbai. The court later allowed a match scheduled for 1 May to take place in Pune due to logistical difficulties with moving the fixture.The Mumbai Cricket Association and the Maharashtra Cricket Association petitioned the Supreme Court against the High Court's ruling, filing a plea which stated that treated sewage water will be used instead of potable water. After the Mumbai Indians selected Jaipur as their alternative venue, a petition was filed in the city which stated hosting IPL matches "will add unnecessary burden on the scarce natural resource." The Rajasthan High Court then questioned the state government and BCCI about shifting the matches to Rajasthan, a region also hit by drought, scheduling the hearing for 27 April. There were reports of protests being held in Jaipur against the shifting of matches to the city.On 26 April the Supreme Court dismissed the petition against the Bombay High Court's ruling and confirmed that matches should be moved out of Maharashtra. The court had initially suggested that a series of regulations could be used to allow matches to go ahead under the condition that no drinkable water was used on the grounds, but opted to instead move the matches on the grounds that the suggested regulations would be complex and difficult to enforce.On 29 April, it was announced that all league stage matches scheduled to be held after 1 May in Mumbai and Pune were shifted to the Dr. Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy ACA-VDCA Cricket Stadium in Visakhapatnam. Two playoff matches scheduled to be held in Pune were shifted to Delhi and three Kings XI Punjab home matches supposed to be held in Nagpur were shifted to their primary home venue, Mohali. The M. Chinnaswamy Stadium in Bangalore, which was scheduled to host the Qualifier 1, was also announced as the host of the Final.


== Opening ceremony ==
The opening ceremony was held on 8 April 2016 from 19:30 IST at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Stadium in Mumbai. It featured performances from Major Lazer, Yo Yo Honey Singh, Ranveer Singh, Katrina Kaif, Jacqueline Fernandez among others. Dwayne Bravo, a member of the West Indies' 2016 World Twenty20 winning team, performed the "Champion Dance", which, according to the IPL chairman Rajeev Shukla, was supposed to be the "special attraction" of the ceremony.


== Venues ==
Ten venues were selected to host the league stage matches. Bangalore hosted Qualifier 1, Pune was scheduled to host the Eliminator match and Qualifier 2 and Mumbai was scheduled to host the final. The drought situation in Maharashtra led to a ruling in the Bombay High Court that games to be played in the state, including in Pune and Mumbai, in May would have to be moved to other regions to allow water supplies to be prioritised. On 29 April 2016, the IPL Governing Council announced that all homes games of the Mumbai Indians and Rising Pune Supergiants after 2 May 2016, would be held at Visakhapatnam. The Eliminator and Qualifier 2 would to be held at Delhi, and the final at Bangalore. On 2 May 2016, it was announced that Gujarat Lions would play two of their matches on 19 and 21 May at Kanpur.


== Personnel changes ==

Each franchise was able to retain players from the previous season of the tournament, with their salaries automatically deducted from the franchise's available salary purse. The new teams were able to draft five players each from the two suspended franchises. Players were able to be traded during the trading windows and new players could be added to the teams at the 2016 IPL players auction held on 6 February 2016.


== Teams and standings ==


=== Points table ===
The four top ranked teams qualified for the playoffs
     advanced to Qualifier 1
     advanced to the EliminatorSource:


=== Match summary ===


=== League progression ===


== League stage ==


=== Match results ===


== Playoff stage ==


=== Preliminary ===


==== Qualifier 1 ====


==== Eliminator ====


==== Qualifier 2 ====


=== Final ===


== Statistics ==


=== Most runs ===

     The player with the most runs at the end of the tournament receives the Orange Cap.
Source: CricinfoVirat Kohli scored the most runs in a single season over taking the record previously held by Chris Gayle and Michael Hussey who scored 733 runs in 2012 and 2013 respectively.


=== Most wickets ===
     The player with the most wickets at the end of the tournament receives the Purple Cap.
Source: Cricinfo


=== Special awards ===
Source: 


== Reception ==


=== Television viewing ===
The first six matches of the season recorded an average Television Viewership Rating (TVR) of 3.50, significantly less than the average TVR of 4.50 for the first week of the 2015 IPL season. It was the second lowest TVR recorded in the opening week of any IPL season, with only the 2014 season with a rating below this.


=== Attendance ===
According to a report in the Economic Times, the season's opening matches at Delhi, Mohali and Kolkata had an average attendance of 60% each, while the first game at Hyderabad had a 50% crowd turnout. The low attendance figures were attributed to "an overdose of Twenty20 cricket and scorching heat". After Bangalore had low attendances in the first two matches at the venue, ticket prices were reduced.Average home attendances:
Kolkata Knight Riders 52,800
Delhi Daredevils 32,800
Chennai Super Kings 30,400
Royal Challengers Bangalore 28,000
Mumbai Indians 26,486
SunRisers Hyderabad 26,400
Kings XI Punjab 20,800
Rajasthan Royals 18,548


== See also ==
List of current Indian Premier League team rosters
List of Indian Premier League records and statistics


== References ==


== External links ==
Series home on ESPN CricinfoThe 2015 season of the Indian Premier League, abbreviated as IPL 8 or Pepsi IPL 2015, was the eighth season of the IPL, a Twenty20 cricket league established by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) in 2007. The tournament featured eight teams and was held from 8 April 2015 to 24 May 2015. The tournament's opening ceremony was held at the Salt Lake Stadium in Kolkata on 7 April 2015. Kolkata Knight Riders were the defending champions having won the title in the 2014 season.
On 24 May 2015, Mumbai Indians defeated Chennai Super Kings by 41 runs in the final at Eden Gardens, Kolkata, to win the IPL title for the second time. Mumbai captain Rohit Sharma was awarded player of the match in the final for his knock of 50 from 26 balls. Andre Russell of the Kolkata Knight Riders was named Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the season.


== Players auction ==

The eight franchises retained a total of 123 players for the 2015 IPL season before moving into the auction. The released players were provided an option to register themselves for auction. Six players were traded across teams before the auction took place. At the 2015 IPL auction held on 16 February at Bangalore, Yuvraj Singh was sold to Delhi Daredevils for ₹16 crore, a record bid in IPL auction history. A total of 67 players were sold out in the auction and the franchises spent a total of ₹87.60 crore to buy the players.


== Officials ==
The 2015 IPL season saw 26 match officials, 13 Indian umpires and four match referees officiating. 26 match officials (umpires and referees) participated in a two-day workshop, organised by the BCCI, in preparation for the 2015 IPL season. The workshop was held at the Cricket Centre, Mumbai, on 4 and 5 April 2015, from 9am to 5pm.


== Venues ==
12 venues were selected to host the league stage matches. Mumbai, Pune and Ranchi hosted Qualifier 1, Eliminator and Qualifier 2 respectively and Kolkata hosted the Final.
Group StagePlayoffs


== IPL Fanpark initiative ==
BCCI started a new initiative IPL Fanpark to spread the reach of IPL across the country. As a part of the initiative, IPL was made available in the stadiums across 15 cities, apart from the 12 venues hosting the matches, on a large screen. The access to these stadiums was free and based on first-come first-served basis. Final match at Nashik.


== Opening ceremony ==
The opening ceremony was held at the Salt Lake Stadium in Kolkata, on 7 April 2015. The captains of all eight teams signed the "MCC Spirit of Cricket" pledge. The ceremony featured live performances of Hrithik Roshan, Anushka Sharma, Farhan Akhtar, Shahid Kapoor among others. The ceremony began after a one and a half hours delay due to rain.


== Teams and standings ==
Top 4 teams were qualified for the playoffs
     advanced to the Qualifier
     advanced to the Eliminator


== League progression ==


== League stage ==


=== Matches ===


== Playoff stage ==


=== Preliminary ===
Qualifier 1
Eliminator
Qualifier 2


=== Final ===


== Statistics ==


=== Most runs ===
     The player with the most runs at the end of the tournament receives the Orange Cap.
Source: Cricinfo


=== Most wickets ===
     The player with the most wickets at the end of the tournament receives the Purple Cap.
Source: Cricinfo


=== Most catches ===
Source: Cricinfo


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Tournament website on ESPN CricinfoThe 2014 season of the Indian Premier League, abbreviated as IPL 7 or Pepsi IPL 2014, was the seventh season of the IPL, a professional Twenty20 cricket league established by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) in 2007. The tournament featured eight teams, one fewer than in 2013 after the withdrawal of the Pune Warriors India, and was held from 16 April 2014 to 1 June 2014. The opening ceremony was held in the UAE on 15 April 2014. The Mumbai Indians were the defending champions, having won the 2013 season.  Kolkata Knight Riders won the tournament, defeating Kings XI Punjab by 3 wickets with Manish Pandey declared the man of the match in the final. The average attendance for the tournament was 31,751.
A part of tournament was held outside India as Indian Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde denied to provide security for the league as the tournament took place at the same time as the 2014 Indian general election. As a result, The tournament was jointly hosted by India and the United Arab Emirates. The opening 20 matches were held in the UAE at three different stadiums in Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Sharjah with the tournament returning to India on 2 May.The player auction took place on 12 and 13 February 2014. Unlike previous seasons, the auction was in Indian Rupees as opposed to US dollars.


== Background ==


=== Hosting ===
On 14 February, Sanjay Patel, who is the BCCI secretary, told the media after the IPL governing council meeting: "As far as possible our interest is to hold the IPL in India. Then, probably, South Africa is the preferred venue at the moment." The initial part of the season was held outside India, to avoid adding to the existing security demands for the 2014 Lok Sabha Elections. South Africa, Bangladesh and UAE were initially shortlisted as alternative venues. The BCCI working committee's meeting on 28 February decided that a final decision would be taken once the schedule for the general election was announced as the BCCI wanted to have as many matches as possible hosted in India due to pressure from the sponsors.On 2 March 2014, it was reported that Sri Lanka, which was under fourth consideration for hosting the matches, has been ruled out due to prospect of rains in the country during the period. On 5 March 2014, when the dates for general elections were announced, IPL chairman Ranjib Biswal stated that 60–70 percent of the tournament would be held in India. Also, South Africa as an alternate venue has effectively been ruled out since they wanted to host the entire tournament, leaving chances open for UAE and Bangladesh.On 12 March 2014, it was announced that the tournament would begin on 16 April and at least 16 matches will be played in United Arab Emirates till 30 April. From the 1st to 12 May, BCCI has approached the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India seeking permission to play IPL matches in India in cities where the polling has concluded in the respective state. If it is not possible to play in India during this period, IPL matches will be held in Bangladesh. All matches after 12 May, which is last day of polling for the elections, will be played in India. No matches will be played on 16 May, given it is the day for counting of votes for the general election. The final was played on 1 June 2014.


=== Schedule ===
The schedule of the first phase of the IPL 2014 was announced on 19 March 2014. The first phase of the tournament consist of 20 matches played from 16 to 30 April 2014 in the United Arab Emirates. The opening match of the tournament was played between the defending champions Mumbai Indians and the Kolkata Knight Riders on 16 April 2014 at the Sheikh Zayed Cricket Stadium in Abu Dhabi at 6:30 pm local time (8:00 pm IST). From 2 May onwards the 36 games of the regular season and the 4 playoffs will be played in India across 10 venues.


=== Staff changes ===
Gary Kirsten signed up as Head Coach of Delhi Daredevils. Kolkata Knight Riders appointed Woorkeri Raman as batting coach while Wasim Akram returned as bowling coach after taking break for IPL-6. Royal Challengers Bangalore announced Daniel Vettori (member of RCB squad, 2011–13) as head coach and Allan Donald (Head coach of the former Pune Warriors India in the last IPL) as bowling coach, while Trent Woodhill (former batting and fielding coach of Delhi Daredevils) was appointed as batting and fielding coach. Darren Lehmann was not able to continue with Kings XI Punjab due to his commitments with Australian cricket team. Sanjay Bangar was appointed as Kings XI's assistant coach. As former Indian cricket team captain Rahul Dravid decided to quit playing IPL after IPL 2013, Rajasthan Royals team management decided to appoint him as the Chief Team Mentor of the Rajasthan Royals team.


=== Insurance ===
Since this year's IPL will be played during the Lok Sabha Elections in the country, re-insurance companies have asked to double the rates for insurance cover of IPL 7. The insurance cover includes parties like BCCI, franchisees and media partners. The insurance companies expects a high security danger threat during the elections period in the country. The companies are demanding Rs. 140 million for a cover of Rs. 9 billion this year which is exactly double to the last year price of Rs. 70 million.


=== Broadcast ===
Times Internet decided to share IPL digital rights with STAR India giving StarSports.com streaming rights alongside YouTube, which has been streaming IPL since its inception in 2008. In the UK, ITV4 will show the league for the final time before Sky Sports takes over in 2015. Willow Cricket carried coverage of the season in the United States. Also IPL T20 started the free broadcasting from 2017 so user can keep updated with the New era of Cricket. IPL 2017  Focused on providing stream ln


== Player auction ==

On 24 December 2013, the IPL Governing Council finalised the Player Regulations for the 2014 season. All teams were allowed to retain a maximum of five players (at most four Indian capped players) and the rest of the players had to be sent into the auction pool. Retention of players led to reduction of the teams' salary cap by a fixed amount, regardless of the players' actual salaries. Some franchises were unhappy with new retention rules. Each team had a starting salary cap of ₹600 million (₹60 crore). Three franchises retained the maximum of 5 players while Delhi Daredevils retained none.This season's auction saw the introduction of several new rules. For the first time Indian uncapped players were also into the auction. There is no minimum quota for catchment area players restriction. All player fees was denominated in Indian rupees but overseas players may choose to be paid in another currency. There was also introduction of the "rights to match", which allowed teams to purchase a player from their 2013 squad in the auction by matching the highest bid. The number of "rights to match" depends on the number of players retained by the team. Also, the players' salaries will not include their fees for participation in the Champions League Twenty20. Teams who qualify will pay each player who represents them an additional 10% of his IPL fee. Previously, players who qualified for the CLT20 with their IPL team had to forfeit 20% of their IPL salary to represent another team.On 27 January 2014 BCCI released a list of capped players to all the franchises which would be available for the auction. This list had a total of 233 players from 10 countries. On 29 January 2014 this list was updated to 244 capped players and 651 uncapped players. On 6 February 2014, the final auction list was shortlisted by teams to 514 players (219 capped and 295 uncapped). The list was further shortened to 511 players (216 capped and 295 uncapped) after the withdrawal of 3 players. The highest base price set was of Rs 20 million and the lowest of Rs 1 million. The auction took place on the 12 and 13 February.
On 7 February 2014, a plea was filed in the Supreme Court to interfere in the IPL auction in relation to the 2013 Indian Premier League spot-fixing and betting case involving Gurunath Meiyappan of Chennai Super Kings. On 10 February 2014, an IPL spot-fixing report finding Meiyappan involved in betting was submitted to the Supreme Court. However the Supreme Court allowed the auction to go through as per schedule.A total of 154 players including 50 overseas players were sold. The list consisted of 80 capped players (of which 34 were Indians) and 74 uncapped players. 127 players (including 10 who have only been part of the squad) have previously been part of IPL teams. 66 players will represent the same side that they played for in 2013. 13 Right to Match cards were used during the auction. Yuvraj Singh fetched the highest bid of ₹14 crore (US$2.0 million) while Dinesh Karthik was the second most expensive purchase at a price of ₹12.5 crore (US$1.8 million) by Delhi Daredevils. Kevin Pietersen was the costliest foreign player. Among uncapped players, Karn Sharma was the most expensive at ₹3.75 crore (US$530,000). Many prominent Indian players and most Sri Lankan and English players were unsold like Luke Wright & Alex Hales.


== Venues ==
The first leg of the tournament was hosted in the United Arab Emirates so that the competition would not clash with the Indian elections, with the second leg to be hosted in India. The MA Chidambaram Stadium in Chennai was removed as a venue due to a dispute with the municipal authorities. The home ground of the Rajasthan Royals for the season was also changed from the Sawai Mansingh Stadium in Jaipur to the Sardar Patel Stadium in Ahmedabad as the Rajasthan Cricket Association, the owners of the Sawai Mansingh Stadium, were suspended by the BCCI due to the election of Lalit Modi as its Chairman.


== Teams and standings ==
Top 4 teams were qualified for the playoffs
     advanced to the Qualifier
     advanced to the Eliminator


== League progression ==


== Group stage ==


=== Fixtures ===

 


== Playoff stage ==


=== Preliminary ===


=== Final ===


== Statistics ==


=== Most runs ===
The player with the most runs at the end of the tournament receives the Orange Cap.
Source: Cricinfo


=== Most wickets ===
The player with the most wickets at the end of the tournament receives the Purple Cap.
Source: Cricinfo


== Average attendance ==
Source:Delhi Daredevils		35,143
Rajasthan Royals		29,095
Sunrisers Hyderabad		27,571
Chennai Super Kings		27,000
Royal Challengers Bangalore	27,000
Mumbai Indians			26,714
Kolkata Knight Riders		25,143
Kings XI Punjab			25,000


== 2014 Cricinfo IPL XI ==
Robin Uthappa
David Warner
Suresh Raina
Wriddhiman Saha
Glenn Maxwell
MS Dhoni (c & wk)
Akshar Patel
Bhuvneshwar Kumar
Mohit Sharma
Lasith Malinga
Sunil Narine
12th Man: Shakib Al Hasan


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Tournament website on ESPN Cricinfo
Series page on Wisden IndiaThe 2013 season of the Indian Premier League, abbreviated as IPL 6 or Pepsi IPL 2013, was the sixth season of the IPL, established by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) in 2007. The tournament featured nine teams and was held from 3 April to 26 May 2013. The opening ceremony was held at the Salt Lake Stadium in Kolkata on 2 April 2013. This was the first season with PepsiCo as the title sponsor. The Kolkata Knight Riders were the defending champions, having won the 2012 season. A spot fixing case was revealed by Delhi Police, leading to arrest of three cricketers from Rajasthan Royals and other persons. Mumbai Indians won the tournament for the first time, defeating Chennai Super Kings in the final by 23 runs.


== Background ==


=== Sponsorship ===
PepsiCo replaced DLF Ltd as the title sponsor starting with the 2013 season. DLF did not renew their contract after their initial five-year contract, for ₹ 2.50 billion, ended with the previous season. PepsiCo's contract is ₹ 3968 million for five years, ending with the 2017 season. In response to questions about the higher sponsorship costs compared to DLF's, a representative of PepsiCo said, "Our estimate is that we will get five to six times the value of the money we paid." However, Brand Finance had assessed the IPL's brand value to have fallen from $4.1 billion in 2010 to $2.9 billion in 2012, attributed to the decline in television ratings over the two years.


=== Termination of Deccan Chargers ===

Deccan Chargers, champions of the 2009 Indian Premier League, became the second team to be terminated from the IPL after Kochi Tuskers Kerala. The owners failed to save the team after several attempts were made with the Bombay High Court and Supreme Court of India. Immediately after the Chargers' termination, the BCCI invited bidders for a replacement team also based in Hyderabad. It was announced on 25 October 2012 that Sun TV Network won the bid at ₹ 850.5 million per year. The new team was named the Sunrisers Hyderabad.


=== Personnel changes ===

In October 2012, the teams were allowed to release any number of their players from their contracts to reduce their player costs. The released players would have the option of entering the auction. The players' auction was held on 3 February 2013, where 37 players were sold.


=== Overseas participation ===
Availability of Bangladeshi players was put in doubt when the Bangladesh Cricket Board considered not issuing the players with the No Objection Certificates they needed to participate in the tournament. Their deliberation was due to the tournament's dates clashing with the Bangladesh tour of Zimbabwe. Regardless, both affected players, Shakib Al Hasan and Tamim Iqbal, missed the start of the tournament due to injury.
Despite the progress on the restoration of cricketing relations between India and Pakistan after the Pakistan national cricket team toured India in December 2012 and January 2013, no Pakistani players were included in the auction. Several South Africans missed the start of the tournament to play in the knockout stage of the Ram Slam T20 Challenge. Two New Zealand players were released early by their teams to join the New Zealand tour of England. Both players were not performing for their teams. Sri Lanka Cricket made a similar request to allow some of their players to join their preparations for the ICC Champions Trophy.Shortly before the start of the season, the IPL governing council ruled that Sri Lankan cricketers and match officials will not participate in any matches held in Chennai. This was a result of the growing political tensions in Tamil Nadu concerning the ethnic conflict between the Sinhalese and Sri Lankan Tamils. The anti-Sinhalaese sentiments from the people of Tamil Nadu raised security concerns for Sri Lankan involvement. The decision was made after Jayalalithaa, the chief minister of Tamil Nadu, wrote to the Prime Minister of India requesting the ban.Other than the Chennai Super Kings, the franchises were not in support of the decision as they believed it offered Chennai an added advantage in their home matches. Chennai's Sri Lankan players hold secondary positions in their team while some Sri Lankans in other teams play key roles and their absence in those matches would affect their team strategies. Another concern was with how the decision did not follow the precedence of moving the matches to a different venue. However, the playoff matches originally scheduled to be held in Chennai were later relocated to Delhi.


== Opening ceremony ==
The opening ceremony was held at the largest stadium in India, and the second largest stadium in the world by capacity, the Salt Lake Stadium or Yuva Bharati Krirangan in Kolkata, on 2 April 2013. All nine teams, led by their captains, took the "MCC Spirit of Cricket" pledge. Mamata Banerjee, the Chief Minister of West Bengal, was present at the ceremony. It featured live performances of American rapper Pitbull and Indian film stars Shahrukh Khan, Katrina Kaif and Deepika Padukone.


== Season summary ==


=== April ===
The season began on 3 April with the defending champions the Kolkata Knight Riders defeating the Delhi Daredevils. Kolkata would then struggle and lose five of their next six matches due to good batting performances only coming from captain Gautam Gambhir and Eoin Morgan. Delhi, who topped the group stage in 2012, had a six-match losing streak due to batting failures apart from three half-centuries from captain Mahela Jayawardene and David Warner. Both Delhi and Kolkata were positioned at the bottom of the points table for the first half of the season.
Two-time runners-up the Royal Challengers Bangalore won six of their first eight matches with a six-of-six home record. This was credited to good death-over bowling from Vinay Kumar and prolific and quick run-scoring from captain Virat Kohli, Chris Gayle and AB de Villiers. This included Gayle's score of 175 not out, the highest in Twenty20 cricket. However, their performances were fluctuant. Included was a 130-run victory, two Super Overs and two other matches involving a tight finish. Two-time champions the Chennai Super Kings were similarly dominant, with good batting from captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni, Michael Hussey and Suresh Raina and an all-round bowling attack. They came up with an IPL record-equalling seven-match winning streak, which took them to the top of the points table.The Mumbai Indians, who made playoff-stage appearances in each of the past three years, were inconsistent with both batting and bowling. Good batting performances from Dinesh Karthik, Rohit Sharma and Kieron Pollard put Mumbai at the middle of the points table halfway through the season. The Sunrisers Hyderabad produced results contrary to the poor performance last season by their predecessors the Deccan Chargers. With no stand-out individual batting performances, Hyderabad managed to win five of their first seven matches. Their strength was in their strong and economical bowling from an attack centred around Dale Steyn and Amit Mishra. Mishra got the second hat-trick of the season, becoming the first to achieve three IPL hat-tricks.Also at the middle of the points table was the Rajasthan Royals. They won matches with cohesive batting and bowling where different players delivered match-winning contributions. Shane Watson produced scores of 101 and 98 not out while James Faulkner was briefly the season's top wicket-taker after taking 5 for 20. The Pune Warriors India and the Kings XI Punjab continue their form from 2012. Pune won two matches from eight with significant contributions coming only from Aaron Finch, Steve Smith and Bhuvneshwar Kumar. Punjab had average performances with poor contributions from their international players and a dependency on their less-accomplished local players.


=== May ===
In the second half of the season, Chennai continued to be dominant and held their number-one position on the points table while Mumbai, Rajasthan, Bangalore and Hyderabad were evenly matched as they switched between the positions of second to fifth. Mumbai excelled to win seven out of eight matches with improved bowling performances around Mitchell Johnson and Pollard producing an unbeaten innings of 66 runs from 27 balls. Rajasthan were also strong and had four consecutive victories and a perfect record at home. Ajinkya Rahane scored three consecutive half-centuries, Sanju Samson made a strong IPL debut and Watson continued his good form.Bangalore's schedule had them play six consecutive away matches, of which they could only win two due to their bowling attack struggling on away surfaces and repeatedly failures to defend high scores set by Gayle, Kohli and de Villiers. Hyderabad's bowlers continued to perform while their batting was strengthened with the inclusion of Shikhar Dhawan, who returned from injury after scoring the fastest Test-debut hundred two months ago, and Darren Sammy. Bangalore and Hyderabad slowly fell behind Mumbai and Rajasthan in the points table, allowing a chance for other teams.
Delhi and Pune failed to recover from their poor starts to the season and were the first to be eliminated from the tournament, similar to their performances in 2011. Punjab's form deteriorated as they faced teams at the top-half of the points table, with only Shaun Marsh and David Miller making significant batting contributions. Kolkata showed signs of improvement as their bowlers limited the opposition to low scores but this only lifted their position to sixth. Both Punjab and Kolkata needed to win every one of their remaining matches for any chance of qualification.
With ten matches remaining in the group stage, Chennai, Mumbai and Rajasthan were first to earn playoff stage berths while a few losses by Bangalore and Hyderabad gave Kolkata and Punjab a slim chance of competing for the final spot. Kolkata was eliminated after suffering an upset at home by Pune. Punjab, despite finishing their season with three straight wins, failed to catch up. The tie between Bangalore and Hyderabad came down to the final match of the group stage, between Hyderabad and Kolkata. Hyderabad won to place themselves narrowly ahead of Bangalore by one win and qualify.


==== Playoff stage ====

Amidst the spot-fixing controversy and despite Faulkner's second five-wicket haul, Rajasthan finished the group stage with two consecutive losses and gave Mumbai and Chennai the advantageous top two positions. In Qualifier 1 between Chennai and Mumbai, a 140-run partnership between Raina and Hussey against Mumbai's formidable bowling helped Chennai win by 48 runs and qualify for their fifth IPL Final. Dwayne Smith's innings of 68 runs was the only highlight of Mumbai's innings. Rajasthan faced Hyderabad in the Eliminator. On a slow pitch that troubled batsmen, Brad Hodge top-scored with an unbeaten innings of 54 runs to help Rajasthan win in a low-scoring match.In Qualifier 2, Mumbai defeated Rajasthan by 4 wickets. Mumbai bowled better, as Harbhajan Singh's 3 wickets earned him the man of the match. Smith was again the top-scorer for Mumbai, scoring 68 but better support from other batsmen allowed Mumbai to win with one ball remaining. Mumbai faced Chennai in the Final, in which the Mumbai Indians had a shaky start but due to some great batting by Kieron Pollard (he scored 60*), they managed to reach a score of 148–9. They started well with the ball, reducing Chennai to 39–6, but captain MS Dhoni led from the front. However, he lacked support from the other end. Finally they finished at 125–9, giving the Mumbai Indians an unexpected victory and won their first IPL Title.


== Other incidents ==


=== Spot-fixing ===

On 16 May 2013, Rajasthan Royals players Sreesanth, Ankeet Chavan and Ajit Chandila were arrested from Mumbai's Trident Hotel by Delhi Police along with seven bookies on charges of spot-fixing in the tournament. Police sources said the players have been accused of spot-fixing in their matches on 9 and 15 May 2013 against Kings XI Punjab and Mumbai Indians respectively.


=== Withdrawal by Pune Warriors India ===
On 21 May 2013, Pune Warriors India terminated their participation in the league due to disagreements with their franchisee fees for the BCCI.


== Venues ==
12 venues were selected to host the matches, with Raipur and Ranchi hosting for the first time in the tournament's history. In the playoff stage, Delhi will host the Qualifier 1 and Eliminator while Kolkata will host the Qualifier 2 and Final. Chennai was originally scheduled to host the playoff stage matches instead of Delhi on account of Chennai and Kolkata being the home venues of the runners-up and champions of the 2012 season. The change was made due to the political tension in Tamil Nadu preventing Sri Lankan players and management staff from entering the state.


== Teams and standings ==


== League progression ==


== Group stage ==


=== Fixtures ===


== Playoffs ==


=== Preliminary ===


=== Final ===


== Statistics ==


=== Team records ===
Highest total : 263/5 by Royal Challengers Bangalore against Pune Warriors India at M. Chinnaswamy Stadium, Bangalore on 23 April 2013
Lowest total : 79 by Chennai Super Kings against Mumbai Indians at Wankhede Stadium, Mumbai on 5 May 2013
Highest match aggregate: 396 between Royal Challengers Bangalore and Pune Warriors India at M. Chinnaswamy Stadium, Bangalore on 23 April 2013
Lowest match aggregate: 161 between Sunrisers Hyderabad and Delhi Daredevils at Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket Stadium, Hyderabad on 4 May 2013
Largest victory:
By runs: 130 runs by Royal Challengers Bangalore against Pune Warriors India at M. Chinnaswamy Stadium, Bangalore on 23 April 2013
By wickets: 10 wickets while chasing 139 by Chennai Super Kings against  at Punjab Cricket Association Stadium, Mohali on 10 April 2013
By balls remaining: 46 balls while chasing 100 by Kings XI Punjab against Pune Warriors India at Subrata Roy Sahara Stadium, Pune on 7 April 2013
Smallest victory:
By runs: 2 runs by Royal Challengers Bangalore against Mumbai Indians at M. Chinnaswamy Stadium, Bangalore on 4 April 2013
By wickets: 3 wickets while chasing 115 by Sunrisers Hyderabad against Delhi Daredevils at Feroz Shah Kotla, Delhi on 12 April 2013
Tied matches:
Between Sunrisers Hyderabad and Royal Challengers Bangalore at Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket Stadium, Hyderabad on 7 April 2013
Between Royal Challengers Bangalore and Delhi Daredevils at M. Chinnaswamy Stadium, Bangalore on 16 April 2013


=== Most runs ===

     The leading run-scorer of the tournament wears an orange cap while fielding.
Michael Hussey's 733 runs makes him the joint second highest run scorer in a single IPL season tied with Chris Gayle who also scored 733 runs in 2012 and behind Virat Kohli who scored 973 runs in 2016


=== Most wickets ===

     The leading wicket-taker of the tournament wears a purple cap while fielding.
Dwayne Bravo's 32 wickets made him the highest wicket taker in a single IPL season. He broke Lasith Malinga's record of 28 wickets in 2011.


== Cricinfo IPL XI ==
Chris Gayle
Michael Hussey
Virat Kohli
Suresh Raina
Rohit Sharma
MS Dhoni (C & WK)
James Faulkner
Harbhajan Singh
Amit Mishra
Dale Steyn
Mohit Sharma
Stuart Binny 12th man


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Tournament website on ESPN CricinfoThe 2012 Indian Premier League season, abbreviated as IPL 5 or the IPL 2012 or the DLF IPL 2012 (owing to title sponsorship reasons), was the fifth season of the Indian Premier League, initiated by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) in 2007 with the first season played in 2008. The tournament began on 4 April and ended on 27 May 2012. Kolkata Knight Riders were the winning team, beating defending champions Chennai Super Kings by five wickets in the final.  This season the number of teams in the league went from ten to nine with the termination of Kochi Tuskers Kerala.Despite a slow start, IPL 5 earned a higher cumulative viewership than any previous edition of the IPL. The cumulative reach for 74 IPL 5 matches was recorded at 163 million against 162 million for 73 matches in IPL 4, and the final match had a higher reach than any previous final. The IPL 2012 edition was the most competitive season of which produced many nail biting finishes. In the 2012 season, there were 19 matches which produced results in the last over, and a couple of them produced results in the last ball. There were also 6 matches in which team won by a margin of less than 10 runs. Near the end of the season, the season faced various hurdles including a spot fixing case, which allegedly included 5 players caught on a sting operation carried on by a local news channel.The top four teams of the tournament (Kolkata Knight Riders, Chennai Super Kings, Delhi Daredevils and Mumbai Indians) represented India in the 2012 Champions League Twenty20. The Fair Play Award was won by Rajasthan Royals, while Kings XI Punjab batsman Mandeep Singh was named the tournament's "Rising Star" and Kolkata Knight Riders bowler Sunil Narine was Player of the Season.


== Termination of Kochi ==

The IPL Committee terminated the Kochi Tuskers Kerala franchise after it breached the BCCI's terms of conditions. Under the terms of the agreement, each franchise has to submit a bank guarantee every year that covers the fee payable to the BCCI. The team, founded in 2010, was bought for ₹1,550 crore and the consortium has to pay a bank guarantee of ₹1.56 billion every year until 2020. Despite this, the Tuskers' former players participated in this season's competition after being included in the players auction on 4 February 2012.
On 13 January, the BCCI asked the international players of Kochi Tuskers Kerala to register the individual court cases against the owners of the Kochi IPL team with the BCCI included as a party to each case.


== Venues ==


== Opening ceremony ==

The opening ceremony was held on 3 April night in Chennai at the YMCA Ground. The ceremony included some performances by Amitabh Bachchan, Priyanka Chopra, Kareena Kapoor, Salman Khan, Prabhu Deva, Colonial Cousins, and Katy Perry. The opening game was held in the M. A. Chidambaram Stadium, Chennai, the home venue of the reigning champions Chennai Super Kings. The closing ceremony will also be held at the same venue.


== Points table ==


== League progression ==


== Results ==


=== Group stage ===


== Group stage ==


== Playoff stage ==
On 15 March, it was announced that due to the municipal election in Delhi, the playoff schedule was being slightly altered. The sites of the 22 and 23 May matches were changed, with Pune now hosting the first qualifier on 22 May and Bengaluru hosting the eliminator on 23 May. Had the Royal Challengers Bangalore qualified for the playoffs, they would play the match in Bengaluru, switching which venue hosts which match if necessary.


== Playoff stage ==
Qualifier 1
Eliminator
Qualifier 2
Final


== Statistics ==
Overall, 22453 runs were scored at an average of 26.2 with an overall run rate of 7.82. 857 wickets fell in the whole of the tournament. Both the number of runs and of wickets are the most that has occurred in one tournament out of all five IPL tournaments. During the course of this tournament, pace bowlers took 531 wickets with an average of 27.20 and average run rate of 7.81 whereas spinners took 241 wickets at an average of 31.35 and average run rate of 7.41. Overall, 6 centuries were scored. IPL 2008 and IPL 2011 also had the same amount of centuries. In this tournament, 96 fifties were scored, which was the most in any edition of the IPL.  This edition also saw 1911 fours, 2 fours less than previous edition of 2011 Indian Premier League. 731 sixes were also scored, which was another record for a season. On the other hand, this edition had only 2 instances in which a single bowler took 5 wicket haul within his quota of 4 overs as per the rules of Twenty20 cricket.


=== Most runs ===

     The leading run scorer of the league phase wears an orange cap while fielding.


=== Most wickets ===

     The leading wicket taker of the league phase wears a purple cap while fielding.


=== Special awards ===


== Reception and controversies ==


=== Initial viewership ===
The first matches of the season had recorded an average Television Viewership Rating (TVR) of 3.76, 18.7% less than the previous season. The viewership was also reportedly low for the opening ceremony with a rating of 1.3 TVR. The decline was attributed to the number of matches being played, as the count stands at 76 among 9 teams. The rating continued to fall as the cumulative number of people who tuned in to watch the first 16 games also declined from 127.40 million in 2011 to 122.44 million.
However, despite this slow start, IPL 5 garnered a higher cumulative viewership than any previous edition of the IPL. The cumulative reach for 74 IPL 5 matches was recorded at 163 million against 162 million for 73 matches in IPL 4, and the final match had a higher reach than any previous final.


=== 2012 Cricinfo IPL XI ===
Chris Gayle
Gautam Gambhir (C)
Suresh Raina
Jacques Kallis
Rohit Sharma
MS Dhoni (WK)
Ambati Rayudu
Dale Steyn
Parvinder Awana
Umesh Yadav
Sunil Narine
Steve Smith (12th man)


=== Spot fixing ===
On 14 May 2012, an Indian news channel India TV aired a sting operation that accused five players involved in spot fixing. Reacting to the news, Chief manager of Indian Premier League Rajiv Shukla immediately suspended all five: Mohnish Mishra, Shalabh Srivastava, TP Sudhindra, Amit Yadav, and Abhinav Bali (none of whom had played international cricket). However, the report went on to claim that none of the cricketers were found guilty. On the reliability of the report, Rajat Sharma, the editor-in-chief of news channel India TV quoted that the channel had no doubts about the authenticity of the sting operation and prepared to go to court.Mohnish Mishra who was part of Pune Warriors India team for the season, admitted to have said that franchises pay black money, in a sting operation. Mishra was caught on tape saying that franchisees paid them black money and that he had received ₹15 million (US$210,000) from the later, among which ₹12 million (US$170,000) was black money. He was also suspended from his team.


=== Other charges ===
9 April: Sharukh Khan, owner of the Kolkata Knight Riders, was served a notice by the Rajasthan Police for smoking in public. Khan was caught smoking on camera during a match between the Kolkata Knight Riders, the IPL team he owns, and the Rajasthan Royals on 8 April.
16 May: Shahrukh Khan, owner of the Kolkata Knight Riders, received a five-year ban from the Wankhede Stadium for arguing with security at the ground after a match.
18 May: Luke Pomersbach, a Royal Challengers Bangalore batsman, was arrested on charges of molesting an American woman. He was later granted interim bail.
20 May: Rahul Sharma and Wayne Parnell, Pune Warriors India players, were detained by Mumbai Police along with hundreds at a rave party bust.


== See also ==
List of current Indian Premier League team rosters
List of 2012 Indian Premier League personnel changes
2012 Champions League Twenty20


== References ==


== External links ==
Tournament site on ESPN CricInfoThe 2011 Indian Premier League season, abbreviated as IPL 4 or the IPL 2011, was the fourth season of the Indian Premier League, the top Twenty20 cricket league in India. The tournament was hosted in India and the opening and closing ceremonies were held in M. A. Chidambaram Stadium, Chennai, the home venue of the reigning champions Chennai Super Kings. The season ran from 8 April to 28 May 2011. This season the number of teams in the league went from eight to ten with the additions of the Pune Warriors India and the Kochi Tuskers Kerala.
The tournament was won by the Chennai Super Kings for the second successive season defeating Royal Challengers Bangalore by 58 runs in the final in Chennai, with the winning team's Murali Vijay being named Man of the Match. With this win CSK became the only team to have won the IPL on more than one occasion. Despite Bangalore failing to win the title, one of the team's players, Chris Gayle was named as the tournament's best player. He scored 608 runs in twelve innings – the most in the tournament – as well as picking up eight wickets, having joined the team after the start of the season due to an injury to another overseas player, Dirk Nannes. Mumbai Indians' Lasith Malinga set a new record for most wickets taken within an Indian Premier League season, claiming 28 wickets during the campaign, but Mumbai had to settle for third place in the tournament, having lost to Bangalore in the second qualifier. Chennai, Bangalore and Mumbai represented India in the Champions League 2011 tournament in September. The Fly Kingfisher Fair Play Award was again won by the Chennai Super Kings for topping the fair-play table.


== Format ==
With the introduction of 2 new teams, a new ten-team format was created. This new format consists of 74 matches and was introduced as retaining the previous format would result in 94 matches, significantly greater than the 60 matches from the previous season, where teams compete in a double round-robin tournament. The knockout stage was changed to a playoff format. If a match ends in a tie, a Super Over will be played to determine the winner.
The ten teams are divided into two groups of five. In the group stage, each team plays 14 games: facing the other four teams in their group two times each (one home and one away game), four teams in the other group once, and the remaining team two times. A random draw was used to determine the groups and who plays whom across the groups once and twice.
Each team plays the team in the same row and the same column twice, and all others once. For instance, Pune Warriors India will play Chennai Super Kings and the other Group A teams twice but the other teams from Group B (Kolkata Knight Riders, Kochi Tuskers Kerala, Royal Challengers Bangalore and Rajasthan Royals) only once. Similarly Kochi Tuskers Kerala will play Delhi Daredevils and the other Group B teams twice but all other teams from Group A only once.

Team winning a match will be awarded 2 points. The losing team will not receive any points. In case of a draw or no result, both teams will be awarded 1 point.
A four-game playoff stage following the Page playoff system is held after the group stage. Four games will be played in the playoffs:
Qualifier 1: between the teams ranked first and second in the group stage.
Eliminator: between the teams ranked third and fourth in the group stage.
Qualifier 2: between the loser of the Qualifier 1 and winner of the Eliminator.
Final: between the winners of the Qualifiers 1 and 2.The top three teams from the tournament qualify for the 2011 Champions League Twenty20 while the fourth team enters the qualifying stage of the tournament. Due to the playoff format, the qualifying teams will be the top two teams of the group stage and the winner of the Eliminator in the playoff stage.


== Venues ==


== Squads ==

Each team can have a squad of at most 30 players with a maximum of US$9 million to spend on purchasing players. . Choosing to retain players would subject to a reduction in their salary cap, reducing the amount they may spend on other players. All other players are added to the auction held on 8 and 9 January 2011.The catchment areas of the eight existing teams were changed to account for the two new teams. Catchment areas are nominated areas to help each side select their local players. Each team must select four players from their area.
A total of 12 players have been retained by all the franchises while the remaining go to the auction list. The retained players – who must have been part of the franchise's registered squads for the 2010 season – were valued at $1.8 million for the first player, $1.3 million for the second, $900,000 for the third and $500,000 for the fourth. Mumbai Indians and Chennai Super Kings have retained the maximum of four players while the Kings XI Punjab, Deccan Chargers and Kolkata Knight Riders released all their players.
The RCB franchise owners only retained one player (Virat Kohli), but let go few key players – Rahul Dravid, Dale Steyn, Jacques Kallis. These players emerged very consistent subsequently in the years 2012, 2013. 


== Teams and standings ==
 Note: Top four teams qualified for the Playoffs.
The top three teams qualified for the 2011 Champions League Twenty20 while the fourth team played in the Qualifying stage.

Pune and Kochi are new to the league. The auction for these teams was held at Chennai on 22 March 2010. These two bids, worth a total of Rs 3,235 crore, were more than the Rs 2,853 crore collectively paid for the eight franchises in the first auction, on 24 January 2008.The Rajasthan Royals, and the Kings XI Punjab were temporarily ejected from the league due to issues with their unreported ownership changes. The teams were reinstated with involvement from the High Court. Their owners were broken into several legal entities when the BCCI required the incorporation of the companies. Kochi was also at risk of ejection for the same reasons before BCCI cleared their new ownership pattern for the tournament.


== League progression ==


== Results ==


=== Group stage ===


=== Playoff stage ===


== Fixtures ==
All match times in Indian Standard Time (UTC+5:30)


=== Group stage ===


=== Playoff stage ===
Qualifier 1
Eliminator
Qualifier 2


==== Final ====


== Statistics ==


=== Most runs ===

     The leading scorer of the league phase wears an orange cap when fielding.


=== Most wickets ===

     Tournament's leading wicket taker wears a purple cap when fielding.


== 2011 IPL Cricinfo XI ==
Chris Gayle
Sachin Tendulkar
Shaun Marsh
Virat Kohli
S Badrinath
MS Dhoni (C & WK)
Rahul Sharma
Iqbal Abdulla
Ravichandran Ashwin
Doug Bollinger
Lasith Malinga


== References ==


== External links ==
Official Indian Premier League website
CricInfo Indian Premier League 2011 minisiteThe 2010 Indian Premier League season, abbreviated as IPL 3 or the 2010 IPL, was the third season of the Indian Premier League, established by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) in 2007. The tournament was hosted by India and had an estimated television audience of more than 200 million people in the country. It was played between 12 March and 25 April 2010. It was also the first ever cricket tournament that was broadcast live on YouTube. The final four matches of the tournament were screened in 3D across movie halls in India.The tournament was won by the Chennai Super Kings, who defeated the Mumbai Indians in the final played at Mumbai. The purple cap went to Pragyan Ojha of Deccan Chargers, while the orange cap and the player of the tournament award were awarded to Sachin Tendulkar of the Mumbai Indians. Saurabh Tiwary was declared the U-23 success of the tournament, while the Chennai Super Kings won the Fair Play Award.


== Venues ==
Five new venues were introduced for the third edition of IPL. These included Nagpur, Cuttack, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Dharamsala. Nagpur, Cuttack and Mumbai amongst them hosted the home games for Deccan Chargers, and Ahmedabad and Dharamsala shared some of the home matches of Rajasthan Royals and Kings XI Punjab respectively. Additionally, Hyderabad, which hosted all Deccan's home games in 2008, did not host any games this season. This was attributed to the possibility of unrest due to a Telangana state succession.
The 60-game tournament also featured a third-place playoff between the losing semi-finalists as a qualifier for the Champions League and also saw the induction of ICL players. Both semi-finals were scheduled to be hosted in Bangalore but instead were played in Mumbai. The final and the third place playoff games were played at Mumbai and the season ended five days before the World Twenty20 in West Indies.


== Security concerns ==
On 17 April, before the match between Royal Challengers Bangalore & Mumbai Indians starts, 2 bombs went off at M. Chinnaswamy Stadium in Bangalore, while another was defused. The game on the day did continue, however, after an hour's delay. As a consequence both semi-finals were moved out of the city to DY Patil Stadium in Navi Mumbai. A third device was defused on 18 April 2010. All three devices were hidden in the stadium's perimeter wall and the two explosions were believed to have injured 15 people. Initial investigations suggested that the explosives used in the devices were locally made and were of low intensity. Former cricketers Sir Ian Botham, Brian Lara, Steve Waugh and Shaun Pollock urged the players not to give in to terrorism by opting out of the league.


== Player auction ==

11 players were sold at the player auction held on 19 January 2010 in Mumbai. This was from a list of 97 registered players, which was then shortlisted to 66. West Indian all rounder Kieron Pollard and New Zealand fast bowler Shane Bond were the highest bid players in the auction who were bought for $750,000 but not before their prices went in the silent tie breaker round. Kieron Pollard was bought by Mumbai Indians and Shane Bond by Kolkata Knight Riders.


== Rules and regulations ==
The rules and format were the same as the previous season with the exception of the strategic timeout. Each innings had two mandatory timeouts of two-and-a-half minutes each. The fielding captain must take one at the end of over six, seven, eight or nine, and the batsmen at the end of over 13, 14, 15 or 16. Points in the group stage were awarded as follows:

According to rules, if a match ended with the scores tied, the tie is broken with a one-over-per-side Super Over. The rules of the Super Over are as set out in the ICC Standard Twenty20 International match playing conditions (1 October 2009 version).
Team with most runs wins
If equal, the team with most number of boundary sixes throughout the entire match wins
If still equal, the team with most number of boundaries throughout the entire match wins
If still equal, the team taking the most wickets throughout the entire match wins
If still equal, a count-back from the final ball of the Super Over eliminator shall be conducted. The team with the higher scoring delivery shall be the winner.
If still equal, by coin toss.


== Teams and standings ==


=== League table ===
(C) = Champion; (R) = Runner-up; (3rd) = Winner of third place playoff.Note: Top four teams will qualify for the playoffs.Note: The winner, runner-up and winner of the third place playoff qualified for the 2010 Champions League Twenty20.


=== Match summary ===


== League stage ==


== Playoffs ==


=== Semi-finals ===


=== Third place playoff ===


=== Final ===


== Statistics ==


=== Batting ===


==== Most runs ====
The leading run scorer of the league phase wears an orange cap when fielding.


==== Best batting strike rate ====
 Minimum 200 runs 


=== Bowling ===


==== Most wickets ====
The leading wicket taker of the league phase wears a purple cap when fielding.


==== Best economy rate ====
Minimum 25 overs bowled.


=== Man of the Match awards ===


== IPL Awards 2010 ==


== Cricinfo IPL XI ==
The following players were picked in an IPL XI team by Cricinfo.
Jacques Kallis – Royal Challengers Bangalore
Sachin Tendulkar – Mumbai Indians
Suresh Raina – Chennai Super Kings
Ambati Rayudu – Mumbai Indians
Mahendra Singh Dhoni (captain and wicketkeeper) – Chennai Super Kings
Robin Uthappa – Royal Challengers Bangalore
Kieron Pollard – Mumbai Indians
Ravichandran Ashwin – Chennai Super Kings
Anil Kumble – Royal Challengers Bangalore
Lasith Malinga – Mumbai Indians
Doug Bollinger – Chennai Super Kings


== References ==


== External links ==
Official Website
Tournament website on ESPN CricinfoThe 2009 Indian Premier League season, abbreviated as IPL 2 or the 2009 IPL, was the second season of the Indian Premier League, established by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) in 2007. The tournament was hosted by South Africa and was played between 18 April and 24 May 2009. It was the second biggest cricket tournament in the world, after the Cricket World Cup, and was forecast to have an estimated television audience of more than 200 million people in India alone.As the second season of the IPL coincided with multi-phase 2009 Indian general elections, in the aftermath of the 3 March 2009 attack on the Sri Lanka national cricket team the Government of India refused to commit security by Indian paramilitary forces. As a result, the BCCI decided to host the second season of the league outside India. On 24 March 2009, the BCCI officially announced that the second season of the IPL was to be held in South Africa. Though India did not host the second season, the format of the tournament remained unchanged from the 2008 season format.The IPL injected approximately US$100 million into South Africa's local economy. In addition, the BCCI signed an ₹82 billion (US$1.63 billion) contract with Multi Screen Media to broadcast matches live from South Africa to India.The IPL was hosted successfully in South Africa and was hailed as an "extraordinary" accomplishment. The tournament was particularly praised for globalizing cricket and had set record television viewership. The tournament was won by Deccan Chargers while the Royal Challengers Bangalore were declared as runners-up.


== Venues ==


== Rules and regulations ==
Some of the rules were changed for the 2009 edition of the IPL. The number of international players allowed in any one squad was increased from 8 to 10 although the number allowed in any playing 11 remained at 4. The players purchase cap was increased from 5 to 7 million. The BCCI also negotiated with the ECB to allow English cricketers to participate in the 2009 edition of the IPL cricket. English players were allowed to play for 21 days in between their tour to West Indies and the subsequent return tour.At the halfway point of each innings, a seven-and-a-half-minute television timeout was now held. The change proved controversial, as critics and players felt that it broke the flow of the game, and because two-thirds of the break were devoted purely to additional advertising time. The timeout rules were revised for the 2010 season.The format is the same as previous season. Points in the group stage were awarded as follows:

If the match ends with the scores tied and there must be a winner, the tie is broken with a one over per side "Eliminator" or "Super Over":
Higher number of points
If equal, higher number of wins
If still equal, net run rate
If still equal, lower bowling strike rate
If still equal, result of head to head meeting.


== Teams and standings ==


=== Match summary ===


== Warm-up game ==
The match between Cape Cobras and Rajasthan Royals was billed as the "Clash of the Champions" due to both teams being champions of their country's Twenty20 leagues. However, as an IPL warmup, both teams fielded understrength teams in order to try out new blood, with only 4 of Rajasthan's 2008 title-winning team playing the warm-up. Cape Cobras were the victors.


== League stage ==
Times are in Indian Standard Time (UTC+05:30). Subtract 3.5 hours for local time in South Africa


== Playoffs ==


=== Semi-finals ===


=== Final ===


== Statistics ==


=== Batting ===


==== Most runs ====

     Tournament's leading scorer wore an orange cap when fielding.


==== Best batting strike rate ====
Minimum runs – 200


=== Bowling ===


==== Most wickets ====


==== Best economy ====
Minimum 25 overs bowled


=== Attendance ===
The attendance was expected to be lower in the second edition due to the lower capacities of South African grounds . Total attendance is expected to be a maximum of 1.4 million 


== Other awards ==
Player of the tournament: Adam Gilchrist - Deccan Chargers
Player of the grand final: Anil Kumble - Royal Challengers Bangalore
U-23 success of the tournament: Rohit Sharma (333 runs, 11 wickets) - Deccan Chargers Highest score of the tournament: Manish Pandey (114*) - Royal Challengers Bangalore
Hat tricks Yuvraj Singh (2) and Rohit Sharma (1)
Kingfisher Fair Play Award: Kings XI Punjab


== Franchise earnings ==
The second season that concluded on 24 May 2009 was hugely profitable for the IPL compared to the previous edition. In the 2009 season all the franchises made a profit.

Other incomes include gate receipts, in-stadia advertising, merchandise sales, and media tie-ups
Other expenses include stadia fees, travel, stay cost and team promotionSource: IIFL Research


== See also ==
List of 2009 Indian Premier League personnel changes


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Cricinfo – Indian Premier League
IPL 2009 - StatisticsThe 2008 Indian Premier League season was the inaugural season of the Indian Premier League, established by the BCCI in 2007. The season commenced on 18 April 2008 with the final match held on 1 June 2008. The competition started with a double round robin group stage, in which each of the 8 teams played a home match and an away match against every other team. These matches were followed by two semi-finals and a final.In a match which went down to the last ball, Rajasthan Royals defeated Chennai Super Kings in the final to win the title, with Yusuf Pathan named the player of the match and Shane Watson adjudged the player of the tournament. Sohail Tanvir won the purple cap for being the top wicket-taking bowler while Shaun Marsh won the orange cap for leading run-scorer in the tournament. Shreevats Goswami was awarded the best under-19 player award and the special award for Fair Play was won by the Chennai Super Kings.


== Auctions and Personnel signings ==
                
The auctions for team ownership was held on January 24, 2008. Mumbai was the most expensive team, costing over US$111.9 million. For the inaugural IPL season, each team had a salary cap of US$5 million (Rs. 20 crore approx.). Sachin Tendulkar, Sourav Ganguly, Rahul Dravid, Yuvraj Singh and Virender Sehwag were classified as icon players. They played for the franchises representing their home towns and hence did not enter the auction. Few players were classified as marquee players and the teams which lost out on icon players were allowed one extra marquee player to be selected in the auction. The first auction was conducted on 20 February 2008 with Mahendra Singh Dhoni winning the highest bid of US$1.5 million. Andrew Symonds was the most costly foreign player. A further second auction was held for few foreign players signed. Teams also signed players on individual basis.
                                                                                                                     RCB : Rahul Dravid (c) ,Abdur Razzak, Neravanda Aiyappa , Balachandra Akhil, KP Appanna, Jagadeesh Arunkumar, Mark Boucher(wk) , Shivnarine Chanderpaul , Bharat Cipli, Shreevats Goswami (wk) , Wasim Jaffer , Sunil Joshi ,Jacques Kallis, Zaheer Khan , Virat Kohli, Praveen Kumar , Anil Kumble , Misbah ul Haq , Ashley Noffke, Devraj Patil, Dale Steyn , Ross Taylor, Vinay Kumar , Cameron White , Nathan Bracken
                                                                                                                   CSK : MS Dhoni (c) (wk) , Palani Amarnath, Srikkanth Anirudha, Arun Karthik, R. Ashwin , S. Badrinath , L. Balaji , Napoleon Einstein , Stephen Fleming , Manpreet Gony , Matthew Hayden , Michael Hussey , Shadab Jakati, Joginder Sharma, Viraj Kadbe , Chamara Kapugedara , Suresh Kumar, Albie Morkel ,Abhinav Mukund , Muttiah Muralitharan, Makhaya Ntini , Jacob Oram, Parthiv Patel (wk) , Suresh Raina, Vidyut Sivaramakrishnan , Sudeep Tyagi
                                                                                                                       DC : VVS Laxman (c) , Sanjay Bangar, Halhadar Das (wk) , Herschelle Gibbs , Adam Gilchrist (wk) , Doddapaneni Kalyankrishna  , Pragyan Ojha , Dwarka Ravi Teja , PM Sarvesh Kumar , Shahid Afridi , Rohit Sharma , Chamara Silva , RP Singh, Scott Styris , Andrew Symonds ,Chaminda Vaas , Venugopal Rao , Paidikalva Vijaykumar , Arjun Yadav , Nuwan Zoysa


== Venues ==


== Rules and regulations ==
Points in the group stage were awarded as follows:

In the event of tied scores after both teams have faced their quota of overs, a bowl-out will determine the winner, even in the group stage.In the group stage, teams will be ranked on the following criteria:
Higher number of points
If equal, higher number of wins
If still equal, net run rate
If still equal, lower bowling strike rate
If still equal, result of head to head meeting.


== Teams and standings ==


=== Match summary good ===


== League stage ==


=== Matches ===


== Playoff ==


=== Knockout stage ===


=== Semi-finals ===


=== Final ===


== Statistics ==


=== Batting ===


==== Most runs ====
     Tournament's leading scorer wore an orange cap when fielding.


==== Best batting strike rate ====
Minimum 150 runs scored, minimum 7 innings played


=== Bowling ===


==== Most wickets ====
     Tournament's leading wicket taker wore a purple cap when fielding.


==== Best economy ====
Minimum 20 overs bowled


=== Man of the Match awards ===
Most MOMs


== Cricinfo IPL XI ==
On 5 June 2008, Cricinfo announced what it referred to as the 'pick of the IPL crop' in its 'short-form all-star XI' for the IPL. The team of the tournament consisted of:

Shaun Marsh – Kings XI Punjab
Sanath Jayasuriya – Mumbai Indians
Gautam Gambhir – Delhi Daredevils
MS Dhoni (Captain & Wicketkeeper) – Chennai Super Kings
Shane Watson – Rajasthan Royals
Yusuf Pathan – Rajasthan Royals
Rohit Sharma – Deccan Chargers
Farveez Maharoof – Delhi Daredevils
Sohail Tanvir – Rajasthan Royals
Shane Warne – Rajasthan Royals
Glenn McGrath – Delhi Daredevils


== Controversies ==


=== Cheerleaders ===

The IPL has been criticised by a few politicians and feminists for bringing in foreign cheerleaders, which is seen by many to not be in the traditional spirit of the game, as well as being against some Indian sensibilities. Two cheerleaders from London were asked to leave the ground at Mohali "because of the colour of their skin" by Wizcraft International Entertainment, which handles the team Kings XI Punjab. Ellesha Newton and Sherinne Anderson, both from London and of African ancestry were allegedly barred from entering the stadium by employees of Wizcraft International Entertainment on the pretext that "people don’t like dark girls here". Both the girls also allege that an employee referred to them with the racial slur ″nigger″.Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) said a probe would be initiated by the IPL only if the two women officially complain to IPL commissioner Lalit Modi.
BCCI and IPL officials are surprised that the two cheerleaders did not complain about the alleged racist behaviour while they were in India and spoke about it only after they returned to London.
"We have not received any complaint from any cheerleaders that they were asked to leave by the Mohali-based Kings XI Punjab franchise recently because of the colour of their skin," BCCI joint secretary M.P. Pandove said in Mohali.


=== Sreesanth – Harbhajan Singh altercation ===
On 25 April 2008, following the Kings XI Punjab's victory over the Mumbai Indians at Mohali, Punjab player Sreesanth was slapped under his eye by Harbhajan Singh, the in-stand captain of Mumbai. The incident came to light as Sreesanth was caught by TV cameras sobbing inconsolably on the field before the presentation ceremony. Sreesanth had since downplayed the incident saying he had no complaints against Harbhajan who was "like an elder brother" to him. Harbhajan's team had lost their third consecutive match when he apparently reacted violently to Sreesanth's approaching him and reportedly saying "hard luck". The footage of the slap has not yet been released for public viewing. The BCCI launched an investigation into the incident and decided to ban Harbhajan for the remainder 11 matches of the Twenty20 tournament.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Cricinfo – Indian Premier League